effectual expedient for this purpose will be, mutually, to abstain
from those objects which either side may have first had recourse
to. As neither can CONTROL the other, each will have an obvious and
sensible interest in this reciprocal forbearance. And where there is
an IMMEDIATE common interest, we may safely count upon its
operation. When the particular debts of the States are done away, and
their expenses come to be limited within their natural compass, the
possibility almost of interference will vanish. A small land tax will
answer the purpose of the States, and will be their most simple and
most fit resource.

Many spectres have been raised out of this power of internal taxation,
to excite the apprehensions of the people: double sets of revenue
officers, a duplication of their burdens by double taxations, and the
frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-taxes, have been played
off with all the ingenious dexterity of political legerdemain.

As to the first point, there are two cases in which there can be no
room for double sets of officers: one, where the right of imposing the
tax is exclusively vested in the Union, which applies to the duties on
imports; the other, where the object has not fallen under any State
regulation or provision, which may be applicable to a variety of
objects. In other cases, the probability is that the United States
will either wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for local
purposes, or will make use of the State officers and State regulations
for collecting the additional imposition. This will best answer the
views of revenue, because it will save expense in the collehction, and
will best avoid any occasion of disgust to the State governments and
to the people. At all events, here is a practicable expedient for
avoiding such an inconvenience; and nothing more can be required than
to show that evils predicted to not necessarily result from the plan.

As to any argument derived from a supposed system of influence, it is
a sufficient answer to say that it ought not to be presumed; but the
supposition is susceptible of a more precise answer. If such a spirit
should infest the councils of the Union, the most certain road to the
accomplishment of its aim would be to employ the State officers as
much as possible, and to attach them to the Union by an accumulation
of their emoluments. This would serve to turn the tide of State
influence into the channels of the national government, instead of
making federal influence flow in an opposite and adverse current. But
all suppositions of this kind are invidious, and ought to be banished
from the consideration of the great question before the people. They
can answer no other end than to cast a mist over the truth.

As to the suggestion of double taxation, the answer is plain. The
wants of the Union are to be supplied in one way or another; if to be
done by the authority of the federal government, it will not be to be
done by that of the State government. The quantity of taxes to be paid
by the community must be the same in either case; with this advantage,
if the provision is to be made by the Union that the capital resource
of commercial imposts, which is the most convenient branch of revenue,
can be prudently improved to a much greater extent under federal than
under State regulation, and of course will render it less necessary to
recur to more inconvenient methods; and with this further advantage,
that as far as there may be any real difficulty in the exercise of the
power of internal taxation, it will impose a disposition to greater
care in the choice and arrangement of the means; and must naturally
tend to make it a fixed point of policy in the national administration
to go as far as may be practicable in making the luxury of the rich
tributary to the public treasury, in order to diminish the necessity
of those impositions which might create dissatisfaction in the poorer
and most numerous classes of the society. Happy it is when the
interest which the government has in the preservation of its own
power, coincides with a proper distribution of the public burdens, and
tends to guard the least wealthy part of the community from
oppression!  As to poll taxes, I, without scruple, confess my
disapprobation of them; and though they have prevailed from an early
period in those States [1] which have uniformly been the most
tenacious of their rights, I should lament to see them introduced into
practice under the national government. But does it follow because
there is a power to lay them that they will actually be laid? Every
State in the Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and yet in
several of them they are unknown in practice. Are the State
governments to be stigmatized as tyrannies, because they possess this
power? If they are not, with what propriety can the like power justify
such a charge against the national government, or even be urged as an
obstacle to its adoption? As little friendly as I am to the species of
imposition, I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of
having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal government. There
are certain emergencies of nations, in which expedients, that in the
ordinary state of things ought to be forborne, become essential to the
public weal. And the government, from the possibility of such
emergencies, ought ever to have the option of making use of them. The
real scarcity of objects in this country, which may be considered as
productive sources of revenue, is a reason peculiar to itself, for not
abridging the discretion of the national councils in this
respect. There may exist certain critical and tempestuous conjunctures
of the State, in which a poll tax may become an inestimable
resource. And as I know nothing to exempt this portion of the globe
from the common calamities that have befallen other parts of it, I
acknowledge my aversion to every project that is calculated to disarm
the government of a single weapon, which in any possible contingency
might be usefully employed for the general defense and security.

I have now gone through the examination of such of the powers proposed
to be vested in the United States, which may be considered as having
an immediate relation to the energy of the government; and have
endeavored to answer the principal objections which have been made to
them. I have passed over in silence those minor authorities, which are
either too inconsiderable to have been thought worthy of the
hostilities of the opponents of the Constitution, or of too manifest
propriety to admit of controversy. The mass of judiciary power,
however, might have claimed an investigation under this head, had it
not been for the consideration that its organization and its extent
may be more advantageously considered in connection. This has
determined me to refer it to the branch of our inquiries upon which we
shall next enter.
THE natural order of the subject leads us to consider, in this place,
that provision of the Constitution which authorizes the national
legislature to regulate, in the last resort, the election of its own
members. It is in these words: "The TIMES, PLACES, and MANNER of
holding elections for senators and representatives shall be prescribed
in each State by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may, at any
time, by law, make or alter SUCH REGULATIONS, except as to the PLACES
of choosing senators." [1] This provision has not only been declaimed
against by those who condemn the Constitution in the gross, but it has
been censured by those who have objected with less latitude and
greater moderation; and, in one instance it has been thought
exceptionable by a gentleman who has declared himself the advocate of
every other part of the system. I am greatly mistaken,
notwithstanding, if there be any article in the whole plan more
completely defensible than this. Its propriety rests upon the evidence
of this plain proposition, that EVERY GOVERNMENT OUGHT TO CONTAIN IN
ITSELF THE MEANS OF ITS OWN PRESERVATION. Every just reasoner will, at
first sight, approve an adherence to this rule, in the work of the
convention; and will disapprove every deviation from it which may not
appear to have been dictated by the necessity of incorporating into
the work some particular ingredient, with which a rigid conformity to
the rule was incompatible. Even in this case, though he may acquiesce
in the necessity, yet he will not cease to regard and to regret a
departure from so fundamental a principle, as a portion of
imperfection in the system which may prove the seed of future
weakness, and perhaps anarchy. It will not be alleged, that an
election law could have been framed and inserted in the Constitution,
which would have been always applicable to every probable change in
the situation of the country; and it will therefore not be denied,
that a discretionary power over elections ought to exist somewhere. It
will, I presume, be as readily conceded, that there were only three
ways in which this power could have been reasonably modified and
disposed: that it must either have been lodged wholly in the national
legislature, or wholly in the State legislatures, or primarily in the
latter and ultimately in the former. The last mode has, with reason,
been preferred by the convention. They have submitted the regulation
of elections for the federal government, in the first instance, to the
local administrations; which, in ordinary cases, and when no improper
views prevail, may be both more convenient and more satisfactory; but
they have reserved to the national authority a right to interpose,
whenever extraordinary circumstances might render that interposition
necessary to its safety. Nothing can be more evident, than that an
exclusive power of regulating elections for the national government,
in the hands of the State legislatures, would leave the existence of
the Union entirely at their mercy. They could at any moment annihilate
it, by neglecting to provide for the choice of persons to administer
its affairs. It is to little purpose to say, that a neglect or
omission of this kind would not be likely to take place. The
constitutional possibility of the thing, without an equivalent for the
risk, is an unanswerable objection. Nor has any satisfactory reason
been yet assigned for incurring that risk. The extravagant surmises of
a distempered jealousy can never be dignified with that character. If
we are in a humor to presume abuses of power, it is as fair to presume
them on the part of the State governments as on the part of the
general government. And as it is more consonant to the rules of a just
theory, to trust the Union with the care of its own existence, than to
transfer that care to any other hands, if abuses of power are to be
hazarded on the one side or on the other, it is more rational to
hazard them where the power would naturally be placed, than where it
would unnaturally be placed. Suppose an article had been introduced
into the Constitution, empowering the United States to regulate the
elections for the particular States, would any man have hesitated to
condemn it, both as an unwarrantable transposition of power, and as a
premeditated engine for the destruction of the State governments? The
violation of principle, in this case, would have required no comment;
and, to an unbiased observer, it will not be less apparent in the
project of subjecting the existence of the national government, in a
similar respect, to the pleasure of the State governments. An
impartial view of the matter cannot fail to result in a conviction,
that each, as far as possible, ought to depend on itself for its own
preservation. As an objection to this position, it may be remarked
that the constitution of the national Senate would involve, in its
full extent, the danger which it is suggested might flow from an
exclusive power in the State legislatures to regulate the federal
elections. It may be alleged, that by declining the appointment of
Senators, they might at any time give a fatal blow to the Union; and
from this it may be inferred, that as its existence would be thus
rendered dependent upon them in so essential a point, there can be no
objection to intrusting them with it in the particular case under
consideration. The interest of each State, it may be added, to
maintain its representation in the national councils, would be a
complete security against an abuse of the trust. This argument, though
specious, will not, upon examination, be found solid. It is certainly
true that the State legislatures, by forbearing the appointment of
senators, may destroy the national government. But it will not follow
that, because they have a power to do this in one instance, they ought
to have it in every other. There are cases in which the pernicious
tendency of such a power may be far more decisive, without any motive
equally cogent with that which must have regulated the conduct of the
convention in respect to the formation of the Senate, to recommend
their admission into the system. So far as that construction may
expose the Union to the possibility of injury from the State
legislatures, it is an evil; but it is an evil which could not have
been avoided without excluding the States, in their political
capacities, wholly from a place in the organization of the national
government. If this had been done, it would doubtless have been
interpreted into an entire dereliction of the federal principle; and
would certainly have deprived the State governments of that absolute
safeguard which they will enjoy under this provision. But however wise
it may have been to have submitted in this instance to an
inconvenience, for the attainment of a necessary advantage or a
greater good, no inference can be drawn from thence to favor an
accumulation of the evil, where no necessity urges, nor any greater
good invites. It may be easily discerned also that the national
government would run a much greater risk from a power in the State
legislatures over the elections of its House of Representatives, than
from their power of appointing the members of its Senate. The senators
are to be chosen for the period of six years; there is to be a
rotation, by which the seats of a third part of them are to be vacated
and replenished every two years; and no State is to be entitled to
more than two senators; a quorum of the body is to consist of sixteen
members. The joint result of these circumstances would be, that a
temporary combination of a few States to intermit the appointment of
senators, could neither annul the existence nor impair the activity of
the body; and it is not from a general and permanent combination of
the States that we can have any thing to fear. The first might proceed
from sinister designs in the leading members of a few of the State
legislatures; the last would suppose a fixed and rooted disaffection
in the great body of the people, which will either never exist at all,
or will, in all probability, proceed from an experience of the
inaptitude of the general government to the advancement of their
happiness in which event no good citizen could desire its
continuance. But with regard to the federal House of Representatives,
there is intended to be a general election of members once in two
years. If the State legislatures were to be invested with an exclusive
power of regulating these elections, every period of making them would
be a delicate crisis in the national situation, which might issue in a
dissolution of the Union, if the leaders of a few of the most
important States should have entered into a previous conspiracy to
prevent an election. I shall not deny, that there is a degree of
weight in the observation, that the interests of each State, to be
represented in the federal councils, will be a security against the
abuse of a power over its elections in the hands of the State
legislatures. But the security will not be considered as complete, by
those who attend to the force of an obvious distinction between the
interest of the people in the public felicity, and the interest of
their local rulers in the power and consequence of their offices. The
people of America may be warmly attached to the government of the
Union, at times when the particular rulers of particular States,
stimulated by the natural rivalship of power, and by the hopes of
personal aggrandizement, and supported by a strong faction in each of
those States, may be in a very opposite temper. This diversity of
sentiment between a majority of the people, and the individuals who
have the greatest credit in their councils, is exemplified in some of
the States at the present moment, on the present question. The scheme
of separate confederacies, which will always multiply the chances of
ambition, will be a never failing bait to all such influential
characters in the State administrations as are capable of preferring
their own emolument and advancement to the public weal. With so
effectual a weapon in their hands as the exclusive power of regulating
elections for the national government, a combination of a few such
men, in a few of the most considerable States, where the temptation
will always be the strongest, might accomplish the destruction of the
Union, by seizing the opportunity of some casual dissatisfaction among
the people (and which perhaps they may themselves have excited), to
discontinue the choice of members for the federal House of
Representatives. It ought never to be forgotten, that a firm union of
this country, under an efficient government, will probably be an
increasing object of jealousy to more than one nation of Europe; and
that enterprises to subvert it will sometimes originate in the
intrigues of foreign powers, and will seldom fail to be patronized and
abetted by some of them. Its preservation, therefore ought in no case
that can be avoided, to be committed to the guardianship of any but
those whose situation will uniformly beget an immediate interest in
the faithful and vigilant performance of the trust.
WE HAVE seen, that an uncontrollable power over the elections to the
federal government could not, without hazard, be committed to the
State legislatures. Let us now see, what would be the danger on the
other side; that is, from confiding the ultimate right of regulating
its own elections to the Union itself. It is not pretended, that this
right would ever be used for the exclusion of any State from its share
in the representation. The interest of all would, in this respect at
least, be the security of all. But it is alleged, that it might be
employed in such a manner as to promote the election of some favorite
class of men in exclusion of others, by confining the places of
election to particular districts, and rendering it impracticable to
the citizens at large to partake in the choice. Of all chimerical
suppositions, this seems to be the most chimerical. On the one hand,
no rational calculation of probabilities would lead us to imagine that
the disposition which a conduct so violent and extraordinary would
imply, could ever find its way into the national councils; and on the
other, it may be concluded with certainty, that if so improper a
spirit should ever gain admittance into them, it would display itself
in a form altogether different and far more decisive.

The improbability of the attempt may be satisfactorily inferred from
this single reflection, that it could never be made without causing an
immediate revolt of the great body of the people, headed and directed
by the State governments. It is not difficult to conceive that this
characteristic right of freedom may, in certain turbulent and factious
seasons, be violated, in respect to a particular class of citizens, by
a victorious and overbearing majority; but that so fundamental a
privilege, in a country so situated and enlightened, should be invaded
to the prejudice of the great mass of the people, by the deliberate
policy of the government, without occasioning a popular revolution, is
altogether inconceivable and incredible.

In addition to this general reflection, there are considerations of a
more precise nature, which forbid all apprehension on the subject. The
dissimilarity in the ingredients which will compose the national
government, and in still more in the manner in which they will be
brought into action in its various branches, must form a powerful
obstacle to a concert of views in any partial scheme of
elections. There is sufficient diversity in the state of property, in
the genius, manners, and habits of the people of the different parts
of the Union, to occasion a material diversity of disposition in their
representatives towards the different ranks and conditions in
society. And though an intimate intercourse under the same government
will promote a gradual assimilation in some of these respects, yet
there are causes, as well physical as moral, which may, in a greater
or less degree, permanently nourish different propensities and
inclinations in this respect. But the circumstance which will be
likely to have the greatest influence in the matter, will be the
dissimilar modes of constituting the several component parts of the
government. The House of Representatives being to be elected
immediately by the people, the Senate by the State legislatures, the
President by electors chosen for that purpose by the people, there
would be little probability of a common interest to cement these
different branches in a predilection for any particular class of
electors.

As to the Senate, it is impossible that any regulation of "time and
manner," which is all that is proposed to be submitted to the national
government in respect to that body, can affect the spirit which will
direct the choice of its members. The collective sense of the State
legislatures can never be influenced by extraneous circumstances of
that sort; a consideration which alone ought to satisfy us that the
discrimination apprehended would never be attempted. For what
inducement could the Senate have to concur in a preference in which
itself would not be included? Or to what purpose would it be
established, in reference to one branch of the legislature, if it
could not be extended to the other? The composition of the one would
in this case counteract that of the other. And we can never suppose
that it would embrace the appointments to the Senate, unless we can at
the same time suppose the voluntary co-operation of the State
legislatures. If we make the latter supposition, it then becomes
immaterial where the power in question is placed whether in their
hands or in those of the Union.

But what is to be the object of this capricious partiality in the
national councils? Is it to be exercised in a discrimination between
the different departments of industry, or between the different kinds
of property, or between the different degrees of property? Will it
lean in favor of the landed interest, or the moneyed interest, or the
mercantile interest, or the manufacturing interest? Or, to speak in
the fashionable language of the adversaries to the Constitution, will
it court the elevation of "the wealthy and the well-born," to the
exclusion and debasement of all the rest of the society?  If this
partiality is to be exerted in favor of those who are concerned in any
particular description of industry or property, I presume it will
readily be admitted, that the competition for it will lie between
landed men and merchants. And I scruple not to affirm, that it is
infinitely less likely that either of them should gain an ascendant in
the national councils, than that the one or the other of them should
predominate in all the local councils. The inference will be, that a
conduct tending to give an undue preference to either is much less to
be dreaded from the former than from the latter.

The several States are in various degrees addicted to agriculture and
commerce. In most, if not all of them, agriculture is predominant. In
a few of them, however, commerce nearly divides its empire, and in
most of them has a considerable share of influence. In proportion as
either prevails, it will be conveyed into the national representation;
and for the very reason, that this will be an emanation from a greater
variety of interests, and in much more various proportions, than are
to be found in any single State, it will be much less apt to espouse
either of them with a decided partiality, than the representation of
any single State.

In a country consisting chiefly of the cultivators of land, where the
rules of an equal representation obtain, the landed interest must,
upon the whole, preponderate in the government. As long as this
interest prevails in most of the State legislatures, so long it must
maintain a correspondent superiority in the national Senate, which
will generally be a faithful copy of the majorities of those
assemblies. It cannot therefore be presumed, that a sacrifice of the
landed to the mercantile class will ever be a favorite object of this
branch of the federal legislature. In applying thus particularly to
the Senate a general observation suggested by the situation of the
country, I am governed by the consideration, that the credulous
votaries of State power cannot, upon their own principles, suspect,
that the State legislatures would be warped from their duty by any
external influence. But in reality the same situation must have the
same effect, in the primitive composition at least of the federal
House of Representatives: an improper bias towards the mercantile
class is as little to be expected from this quarter as from the other.

In order, perhaps, to give countenance to the objection at any rate,
it may be asked, is there not danger of an opposite bias in the
national government, which may dispose it to endeavor to secure a
monopoly of the federal administration to the landed class? As there
is little likelihood that the supposition of such a bias will have any
terrors for those who would be immediately injured by it, a labored
answer to this question will be dispensed with. It will be sufficient
to remark, first, that for the reasons elsewhere assigned, it is less
likely that any decided partiality should prevail in the councils of
the Union than in those of any of its members. Secondly, that there
would be no temptation to violate the Constitution in favor of the
landed class, because that class would, in the natural course of
things, enjoy as great a preponderancy as itself could desire. And
thirdly, that men accustomed to investigate the sources of public
prosperity upon a large scale, must be too well convinced of the
utility of commerce, to be inclined to inflict upon it so deep a wound
as would result from the entire exclusion of those who would best
understand its interest from a share in the management of them. The
importance of commerce, in the view of revenue alone, must effectually
guard it against the enmity of a body which would be continually
importuned in its favor, by the urgent calls of public necessity.

I the rather consult brevity in discussing the probability of a
preference founded upon a discrimination between the different kinds
of industry and property, because, as far as I understand the meaning
of the objectors, they contemplate a discrimination of another
kind. They appear to have in view, as the objects of the preference
with which they endeavor to alarm us, those whom they designate by the
description of "the wealthy and the well-born." These, it seems, are
to be exalted to an odious pre-eminence over the rest of their
fellow-citizens. At one time, however, their elevation is to be a
necessary consequence of the smallness of the representative body; at
another time it is to be effected by depriving the people at large of
the opportunity of exercising their right of suffrage in the choice of
that body.

But upon what principle is the discrimination of the places of
election to be made, in order to answer the purpose of the meditated
preference? Are "the wealthy and the well-born," as they are called,
confined to particular spots in the several States? Have they, by some
miraculous instinct or foresight, set apart in each of them a common
place of residence? Are they only to be met with in the towns or
cities? Or are they, on the contrary, scattered over the face of the
country as avarice or chance may have happened to cast their own lot
or that of their predecessors? If the latter is the case, (as every
intelligent man knows it to be, [1] ) is it not evident that the
policy of confining the places of election to particular districts
would be as subversive of its own aim as it would be exceptionable on
every other account? The truth is, that there is no method of securing
to the rich the preference apprehended, but by prescribing
qualifications of property either for those who may elect or be
elected. But this forms no part of the power to be conferred upon the
national government. Its authority would be expressly restricted to
the regulation of the TIMES, the PLACES, the MANNER of elections. The
qualifications of the persons who may choose or be chosen, as has been
remarked upon other occasions, are defined and fixed in the
Constitution, and are unalterable by the legislature.

Let it, however, be admitted, for argument sake, that the expedient
suggested might be successful; and let it at the same time be equally
taken for granted that all the scruples which a sense of duty or an
apprehension of the danger of the experiment might inspire, were
overcome in the breasts of the national rulers, still I imagine it
will hardly be pretended that they could ever hope to carry such an
enterprise into execution without the aid of a military force
sufficient to subdue the resistance of the great body of the
people. The improbability of the existence of a force equal to that
object has been discussed and demonstrated in different parts of these
papers; but that the futility of the objection under consideration may
appear in the strongest light, it shall be conceded for a moment that
such a force might exist, and the national government shall be
supposed to be in the actual possession of it. What will be the
conclusion? With a disposition to invade the essential rights of the
community, and with the means of gratifying that disposition, is it
presumable that the persons who were actuated by it would amuse
themselves in the ridiculous task of fabricating election laws for
securing a preference to a favorite class of men? Would they not be
likely to prefer a conduct better adapted to their own immediate
aggrandizement? Would they not rather boldly resolve to perpetuate
themselves in office by one decisive act of usurpation, than to trust
to precarious expedients which, in spite of all the precautions that
might accompany them, might terminate in the dismission, disgrace, and
ruin of their authors? Would they not fear that citizens, not less
tenacious than conscious of their rights, would flock from the remote
extremes of their respective States to the places of election, to
overthrow their tyrants, and to substitute men who would be disposed
to avenge the violated majesty of the people?
THE more candid opposers of the provision respecting elections,
contained in the plan of the convention, when pressed in argument,
will sometimes concede the propriety of that provision; with this
qualification, however, that it ought to have been accompanied with a
declaration, that all elections should be had in the counties where
the electors resided. This, say they, was a necessary precaution
against an abuse of the power. A declaration of this nature would
certainly have been harmless; so far as it would have had the effect
of quieting apprehensions, it might not have been undesirable. But it
would, in fact, have afforded little or no additional security against
the danger apprehended; and the want of it will never be considered,
by an impartial and judicious examiner, as a serious, still less as an
insuperable, objection to the plan. The different views taken of the
subject in the two preceding papers must be sufficient to satisfy all
dispassionate and discerning men, that if the public liberty should
ever be the victim of the ambition of the national rulers, the power
under examination, at least, will be guiltless of the sacrifice.

If those who are inclined to consult their jealousy only, would
exercise it in a careful inspection of the several State
constitutions, they would find little less room for disquietude and
alarm, from the latitude which most of them allow in respect to
elections, than from the latitude which is proposed to be allowed to
the national government in the same respect. A review of their
situation, in this particular, would tend greatly to remove any ill
impressions which may remain in regard to this matter. But as that
view would lead into long and tedious details, I shall content myself
with the single example of the State in which I write. The
constitution of New York makes no other provision for LOCALITY of
elections, than that the members of the Assembly shall be elected in
the COUNTIES; those of the Senate, in the great districts into which
the State is or may be divided: these at present are four in number,
and comprehend each from two to six counties. It may readily be
perceived that it would not be more difficult to the legislature of
New York to defeat the suffrages of the citizens of New York, by
confining elections to particular places, than for the legislature of
the United States to defeat the suffrages of the citizens of the
Union, by the like expedient. Suppose, for instance, the city of
Albany was to be appointed the sole place of election for the county
and district of which it is a part, would not the inhabitants of that
city speedily become the only electors of the members both of the
Senate and Assembly for that county and district? Can we imagine that
the electors who reside in the remote subdivisions of the counties of
Albany, Saratoga, Cambridge, etc., or in any part of the county of
Montgomery, would take the trouble to come to the city of Albany, to
give their votes for members of the Assembly or Senate, sooner than
they would repair to the city of New York, to participate in the
choice of the members of the federal House of Representatives? The
alarming indifference discoverable in the exercise of so invaluable a
privilege under the existing laws, which afford every facility to it,
furnishes a ready answer to this question. And, abstracted from any
experience on the subject, we can be at no loss to determine, that
when the place of election is at an INCONVENIENT DISTANCE from the
elector, the effect upon his conduct will be the same whether that
distance be twenty miles or twenty thousand miles. Hence it must
appear, that objections to the particular modification of the federal
power of regulating elections will, in substance, apply with equal
force to the modification of the like power in the constitution of
this State; and for this reason it will be impossible to acquit the
one, and to condemn the other. A similar comparison would lead to the
same conclusion in respect to the constitutions of most of the other
States.

If it should be said that defects in the State constitutions furnish
no apology for those which are to be found in the plan proposed, I
answer, that as the former have never been thought chargeable with
inattention to the security of liberty, where the imputations thrown
on the latter can be shown to be applicable to them also, the
presumption is that they are rather the cavilling refinements of a
predetermined opposition, than the well-founded inferences of a candid
research after truth. To those who are disposed to consider, as
innocent omissions in the State constitutions, what they regard as
unpardonable blemishes in the plan of the convention, nothing can be
said; or at most, they can only be asked to assign some substantial
reason why the representatives of the people in a single State should
be more impregnable to the lust of power, or other sinister motives,
than the representatives of the people of the United States? If they
cannot do this, they ought at least to prove to us that it is easier
to subvert the liberties of three millions of people, with the
advantage of local governments to head their opposition, than of two
hundred thousand people who are destitute of that advantage. And in
relation to the point immediately under consideration, they ought to
convince us that it is less probable that a predominant faction in a
single State should, in order to maintain its superiority, incline to
a preference of a particular class of electors, than that a similar
spirit should take possession of the representatives of thirteen
States, spread over a vast region, and in several respects
distinguishable from each other by a diversity of local circumstances,
prejudices, and interests.

Hitherto my observations have only aimed at a vindication of the
provision in question, on the ground of theoretic propriety, on that
of the danger of placing the power elsewhere, and on that of the
safety of placing it in the manner proposed. But there remains to be
mentioned a positive advantage which will result from this
disposition, and which could not as well have been obtained from any
other: I allude to the circumstance of uniformity in the time of
elections for the federal House of Representatives. It is more than
possible that this uniformity may be found by experience to be of
great importance to the public welfare, both as a security against the
perpetuation of the same spirit in the body, and as a cure for the
diseases of faction. If each State may choose its own time of
election, it is possible there may be at least as many different
periods as there are months in the year. The times of election in the
several States, as they are now established for local purposes, vary
between extremes as wide as March and November. The consequence of
this diversity would be that there could never happen a total
dissolution or renovation of the body at one time. If an improper
spirit of any kind should happen to prevail in it, that spirit would
be apt to infuse itself into the new members, as they come forward in
succession. The mass would be likely to remain nearly the same,
assimilating constantly to itself its gradual accretions. There is a
contagion in example which few men have sufficient force of mind to
resist. I am inclined to think that treble the duration in office,
with the condition of a total dissolution of the body at the same
time, might be less formidable to liberty than one third of that
duration subject to gradual and successive alterations.

Uniformity in the time of elections seems not less requisite for
executing the idea of a regular rotation in the Senate, and for
conveniently assembling the legislature at a stated period in each
year.

It may be asked, Why, then, could not a time have been fixed in the
Constitution? As the most zealous adversaries of the plan of the
convention in this State are, in general, not less zealous admirers of
the constitution of the State, the question may be retorted, and it
may be asked, Why was not a time for the like purpose fixed in the
constitution of this State? No better answer can be given than that it
was a matter which might safely be entrusted to legislative
discretion; and that if a time had been appointed, it might, upon
experiment, have been found less convenient than some other time. The
same answer may be given to the question put on the other side. And it
may be added that the supposed danger of a gradual change being merely
speculative, it would have been hardly advisable upon that speculation
to establish, as a fundamental point, what would deprive several
States of the convenience of having the elections for their own
governments and for the national government at the same epochs.
THE remaining powers which the plan of the convention allots to the
Senate, in a distinct capacity, are comprised in their participation
with the executive in the appointment to offices, and in their
judicial character as a court for the trial of impeachments. As in the
business of appointments the executive will be the principal agent,
the provisions relating to it will most properly be discussed in the
examination of that department. We will, therefore, conclude this head
with a view of the judicial character of the Senate.

A well-constituted court for the trial of impeachments is an object
not more to be desired than difficult to be obtained in a government
wholly elective. The subjects of its jurisdiction are those offenses
which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words,
from the abuse or violation of some public trust. They are of a nature
which may with peculiar propriety be denominated POLITICAL, as they
relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself. The
prosecution of them, for this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the
passions of the whole community, and to divide it into parties more or
less friendly or inimical to the accused. In many cases it will
connect itself with the pre-existing factions, and will enlist all
their animosities, partialities, influence, and interest on one side
or on the other; and in such cases there will always be the greatest
danger that the decision will be regulated more by the comparative
strength of parties, than by the real demonstrations of innocence or
guilt.

The delicacy and magnitude of a trust which so deeply concerns the
political reputation and existence of every man engaged in the
administration of public affairs, speak for themselves. The difficulty
of placing it rightly, in a government resting entirely on the basis
of periodical elections, will as readily be perceived, when it is
considered that the most conspicuous characters in it will, from that
circumstance, be too often the leaders or the tools of the most
cunning or the most numerous faction, and on this account, can hardly
be expected to possess the requisite neutrality towards those whose
conduct may be the subject of scrutiny.

The convention, it appears, thought the Senate the most fit depositary
of this important trust. Those who can best discern the intrinsic
difficulty of the thing, will be least hasty in condemning that
opinion, and will be most inclined to allow due weight to the
arguments which may be supposed to have produced it.

What, it may be asked, is the true spirit of the institution itself?
Is it not designed as a method of NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of
public men? If this be the design of it, who can so properly be the
inquisitors for the nation as the representatives of the nation
themselves? It is not disputed that the power of originating the
inquiry, or, in other words, of preferring the impeachment, ought to
be lodged in the hands of one branch of the legislative body. Will not
the reasons which indicate the propriety of this arrangement strongly
plead for an admission of the other branch of that body to a share of
the inquiry? The model from which the idea of this institution has
been borrowed, pointed out that course to the convention. In Great
Britain it is the province of the House of Commons to prefer the
impeachment, and of the House of Lords to decide upon it. Several of
the State constitutions have followed the example. As well the latter,
as the former, seem to have regarded the practice of impeachments as a
bridle in the hands of the legislative body upon the executive
servants of the government. Is not this the true light in which it
ought to be regarded?  Where else than in the Senate could have been
found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or sufficiently independent?
What other body would be likely to feel CONFIDENCE ENOUGH IN ITS OWN
SITUATION, to preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary
impartiality between an INDIVIDUAL accused, and the REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE PEOPLE, HIS ACCUSERS?  Could the Supreme Court have been relied
upon as answering this description? It is much to be doubted, whether
the members of that tribunal would at all times be endowed with so
eminent a portion of fortitude, as would be called for in the
execution of so difficult a task; and it is still more to be doubted,
whether they would possess the degree of credit and authority, which
might, on certain occasions, be indispensable towards reconciling the
people to a decision that should happen to clash with an accusation
brought by their immediate representatives. A deficiency in the first,
would be fatal to the accused; in the last, dangerous to the public
tranquillity. The hazard in both these respects, could only be
avoided, if at all, by rendering that tribunal more numerous than
would consist with a reasonable attention to economy. The necessity of
a numerous court for the trial of impeachments, is equally dictated by
the nature of the proceeding. This can never be tied down by such
strict rules, either in the delineation of the offense by the
prosecutors, or in the construction of it by the judges, as in common
cases serve to limit the discretion of courts in favor of personal
security. There will be no jury to stand between the judges who are to
pronounce the sentence of the law, and the party who is to receive or
suffer it. The awful discretion which a court of impeachments must
necessarily have, to doom to honor or to infamy the most confidential
and the most distinguished characters of the community, forbids the
commitment of the trust to a small number of persons.

These considerations seem alone sufficient to authorize a conclusion,
that the Supreme Court would have been an improper substitute for the
Senate, as a court of impeachments. There remains a further
consideration, which will not a little strengthen this conclusion. It
is this: The punishment which may be the consequence of conviction
upon impeachment, is not to terminate the chastisement of the
offender. After having been sentenced to a perpetual ostracism from
the esteem and confidence, and honors and emoluments of his country,
he will still be liable to prosecution and punishment in the ordinary
course of law. Would it be proper that the persons who had disposed of
his fame, and his most valuable rights as a citizen in one trial,
should, in another trial, for the same offense, be also the disposers
of his life and his fortune? Would there not be the greatest reason to
apprehend, that error, in the first sentence, would be the parent of
error in the second sentence? That the strong bias of one decision
would be apt to overrule the influence of any new lights which might
be brought to vary the complexion of another decision? Those who know
anything of human nature, will not hesitate to answer these questions
in the affirmative; and will be at no loss to perceive, that by making
the same persons judges in both cases, those who might happen to be
the objects of prosecution would, in a great measure, be deprived of
the double security intended them by a double trial. The loss of life
and estate would often be virtually included in a sentence which, in
its terms, imported nothing more than dismission from a present, and
disqualification for a future, office. It may be said, that the
intervention of a jury, in the second instance, would obviate the
danger. But juries are frequently influenced by the opinions of
judges. They are sometimes induced to find special verdicts, which
refer the main question to the decision of the court. Who would be
willing to stake his life and his estate upon the verdict of a jury
acting under the auspices of judges who had predetermined his guilt?
Would it have been an improvement of the plan, to have united the
Supreme Court with the Senate, in the formation of the court of
impeachments? This union would certainly have been attended with
several advantages; but would they not have been overbalanced by the
signal disadvantage, already stated, arising from the agency of the
same judges in the double prosecution to which the offender would be
liable? To a certain extent, the benefits of that union will be
obtained from making the chief justice of the Supreme Court the
president of the court of impeachments, as is proposed to be done in
the plan of the convention; while the inconveniences of an entire
incorporation of the former into the latter will be substantially
avoided. This was perhaps the prudent mean. I forbear to remark upon
the additional pretext for clamor against the judiciary, which so
considerable an augmentation of its authority would have afforded.

Would it have been desirable to have composed the court for the trial
of impeachments, of persons wholly distinct from the other departments
of the government? There are weighty arguments, as well against, as in
favor of, such a plan. To some minds it will not appear a trivial
objection, that it could tend to increase the complexity of the
political machine, and to add a new spring to the government, the
utility of which would at best be questionable. But an objection which
will not be thought by any unworthy of attention, is this: a court
formed upon such a plan, would either be attended with a heavy
expense, or might in practice be subject to a variety of casualties
and inconveniences. It must either consist of permanent officers,
stationary at the seat of government, and of course entitled to fixed
and regular stipends, or of certain officers of the State governments
to be called upon whenever an impeachment was actually depending. It
will not be easy to imagine any third mode materially different, which
could rationally be proposed. As the court, for reasons already given,
ought to be numerous, the first scheme will be reprobated by every man
who can compare the extent of the public wants with the means of
supplying them. The second will be espoused with caution by those who
will seriously consider the difficulty of collecting men dispersed
over the whole Union; the injury to the innocent, from the
procrastinated determination of the charges which might be brought
against them; the advantage to the guilty, from the opportunities
which delay would afford to intrigue and corruption; and in some cases
the detriment to the State, from the prolonged inaction of men whose
firm and faithful execution of their duty might have exposed them to
the persecution of an intemperate or designing majority in the House
of Representatives. Though this latter supposition may seem harsh, and
might not be likely often to be verified, yet it ought not to be
forgotten that the demon of faction will, at certain seasons, extend
his sceptre over all numerous bodies of men.

But though one or the other of the substitutes which have been
examined, or some other that might be devised, should be thought
preferable to the plan in this respect, reported by the convention, it
will not follow that the Constitution ought for this reason to be
rejected. If mankind were to resolve to agree in no institution of
government, until every part of it had been adjusted to the most exact
standard of perfection, society would soon become a general scene of
anarchy, and the world a desert. Where is the standard of perfection
to be found? Who will undertake to unite the discordant opinions of a
whole community, in the same judgment of it; and to prevail upon one
conceited projector to renounce his INFALLIBLE criterion for the
FALLIBLE criterion of his more CONCEITED NEIGHBOR? To answer the
purpose of the adversaries of the Constitution, they ought to prove,
not merely that particular provisions in it are not the best which
might have been imagined, but that the plan upon the whole is bad and
pernicious.
A REVIEW of the principal objections that have appeared against the
proposed court for the trial of impeachments, will not improbably
eradicate the remains of any unfavorable impressions which may still
exist in regard to this matter.

The FIRST of these objections is, that the provision in question
confounds legislative and judiciary authorities in the same body, in
violation of that important and well established maxim which requires
a separation between the different departments of power. The true
meaning of this maxim has been discussed and ascertained in another
place, and has been shown to be entirely compatible with a partial
intermixture of those departments for special purposes, preserving
them, in the main, distinct and unconnected. This partial intermixture
is even, in some cases, not only proper but necessary to the mutual
defense of the several members of the government against each
other. An absolute or qualified negative in the executive upon the
acts of the legislative body, is admitted, by the ablest adepts in
political science, to be an indispensable barrier against the
encroachments of the latter upon the former. And it may, perhaps, with
no less reason be contended, that the powers relating to impeachments
are, as before intimated, an essential check in the hands of that body
upon the encroachments of the executive. The division of them between
the two branches of the legislature, assigning to one the right of
accusing, to the other the right of judging, avoids the inconvenience
of making the same persons both accusers and judges; and guards
against the danger of persecution, from the prevalency of a factious
spirit in either of those branches. As the concurrence of two thirds
of the Senate will be requisite to a condemnation, the security to
innocence, from this additional circumstance, will be as complete as
itself can desire.

It is curious to observe, with what vehemence this part of the plan is
assailed, on the principle here taken notice of, by men who profess to
admire, without exception, the constitution of this State; while that
constitution makes the Senate, together with the chancellor and judges
of the Supreme Court, not only a court of impeachments, but the
highest judicatory in the State, in all causes, civil and
criminal. The proportion, in point of numbers, of the chancellor and
judges to the senators, is so inconsiderable, that the judiciary
authority of New York, in the last resort, may, with truth, be said to
reside in its Senate. If the plan of the convention be, in this
respect, chargeable with a departure from the celebrated maxim which
has been so often mentioned, and seems to be so little understood, how
much more culpable must be the constitution of New York? [1] A SECOND
objection to the Senate, as a court of impeachments, is, that it
contributes to an undue accumulation of power in that body, tending to
give to the government a countenance too aristocratic. The Senate, it
is observed, is to have concurrent authority with the Executive in the
formation of treaties and in the appointment to offices: if, say the
objectors, to these prerogatives is added that of deciding in all
cases of impeachment, it will give a decided predominancy to
senatorial influence. To an objection so little precise in itself, it
is not easy to find a very precise answer. Where is the measure or
criterion to which we can appeal, for determining what will give the
Senate too much, too little, or barely the proper degree of influence?
Will it not be more safe, as well as more simple, to dismiss such
vague and uncertain calculations, to examine each power by itself, and
to decide, on general principles, where it may be deposited with most
advantage and least inconvenience?  If we take this course, it will
lead to a more intelligible, if not to a more certain result. The
disposition of the power of making treaties, which has obtained in the
plan of the convention, will, then, if I mistake not, appear to be
fully justified by the considerations stated in a former number, and
by others which will occur under the next head of our inquiries. The
expediency of the junction of the Senate with the Executive, in the
power of appointing to offices, will, I trust, be placed in a light
not less satisfactory, in the disquisitions under the same head. And I
flatter myself the observations in my last paper must have gone no
inconsiderable way towards proving that it was not easy, if
practicable, to find a more fit receptacle for the power of
determining impeachments, than that which has been chosen. If this be
truly the case, the hypothetical dread of the too great weight of the
Senate ought to be discarded from our reasonings.

But this hypothesis, such as it is, has already been refuted in the
remarks applied to the duration in office prescribed for the
senators. It was by them shown, as well on the credit of historical
examples, as from the reason of the thing, that the most POPULAR
branch of every government, partaking of the republican genius, by
being generally the favorite of the people, will be as generally a
full match, if not an overmatch, for every other member of the
Government.

But independent of this most active and operative principle, to secure
the equilibrium of the national House of Representatives, the plan of
the convention has provided in its favor several important
counterpoises to the additional authorities to be conferred upon the
Senate. The exclusive privilege of originating money bills will belong
to the House of Representatives. The same house will possess the sole
right of instituting impeachments: is not this a complete
counterbalance to that of determining them? The same house will be the
umpire in all elections of the President, which do not unite the
suffrages of a majority of the whole number of electors; a case which
it cannot be doubted will sometimes, if not frequently, happen. The
constant possibility of the thing must be a fruitful source of
influence to that body. The more it is contemplated, the more
important will appear this ultimate though contingent power, of
deciding the competitions of the most illustrious citizens of the
Union, for the first office in it. It would not perhaps be rash to
predict, that as a mean of influence it will be found to outweigh all
the peculiar attributes of the Senate.

A THIRD objection to the Senate as a court of impeachments, is drawn
from the agency they are to have in the appointments to office. It is
imagined that they would be too indulgent judges of the conduct of
men, in whose official creation they had participated. The principle
of this objection would condemn a practice, which is to be seen in all
the State governments, if not in all the governments with which we are
acquainted: I mean that of rendering those who hold offices during
pleasure, dependent on the pleasure of those who appoint them. With
equal plausibility might it be alleged in this case, that the
favoritism of the latter would always be an asylum for the misbehavior
of the former. But that practice, in contradiction to this principle,
proceeds upon the presumption, that the responsibility of those who
appoint, for the fitness and competency of the persons on whom they
bestow their choice, and the interest they will have in the
respectable and prosperous administration of affairs, will inspire a
sufficient disposition to dismiss from a share in it all such who, by
their conduct, shall have proved themselves unworthy of the confidence
reposed in them. Though facts may not always correspond with this
presumption, yet if it be, in the main, just, it must destroy the
supposition that the Senate, who will merely sanction the choice of
the Executive, should feel a bias, towards the objects of that choice,
strong enough to blind them to the evidences of guilt so
extraordinary, as to have induced the representatives of the nation to
become its accusers.

If any further arguments were necessary to evince the improbability of
such a bias, it might be found in the nature of the agency of the
Senate in the business of appointments.

It will be the office of the President to NOMINATE, and, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to APPOINT. There will, of course,
be no exertion of CHOICE on the part of the Senate. They may defeat
one choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make another; but they
cannot themselves CHOOSE, they can only ratify or reject the choice of
the President. They might even entertain a preference to some other
person, at the very moment they were assenting to the one proposed,
because there might be no positive ground of opposition to him; and
they could not be sure, if they withheld their assent, that the
subsequent nomination would fall upon their own favorite, or upon any
other person in their estimation more meritorious than the one
rejected. Thus it could hardly happen, that the majority of the Senate
would feel any other complacency towards the object of an appointment
than such as the appearances of merit might inspire, and the proofs of
the want of it destroy.

A FOURTH objection to the Senate in the capacity of a court of
impeachments, is derived from its union with the Executive in the
power of making treaties. This, it has been said, would constitute the
senators their own judges, in every case of a corrupt or perfidious
execution of that trust. After having combined with the Executive in
betraying the interests of the nation in a ruinous treaty, what
prospect, it is asked, would there be of their being made to suffer
the punishment they would deserve, when they were themselves to decide
upon the accusation brought against them for the treachery of which
they have been guilty?  This objection has been circulated with more
earnestness and with greater show of reason than any other which has
appeared against this part of the plan; and yet I am deceived if it
does not rest upon an erroneous foundation.

The security essentially intended by the Constitution against
corruption and treachery in the formation of treaties, is to be sought
for in the numbers and characters of those who are to make them. The
JOINT AGENCY of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, and of two thirds
of the members of a body selected by the collective wisdom of the
legislatures of the several States, is designed to be the pledge for
the fidelity of the national councils in this particular. The
convention might with propriety have meditated the punishment of the
Executive, for a deviation from the instructions of the Senate, or a
want of integrity in the conduct of the negotiations committed to him;
they might also have had in view the punishment of a few leading
individuals in the Senate, who should have prostituted their influence
in that body as the mercenary instruments of foreign corruption: but
they could not, with more or with equal propriety, have contemplated
the impeachment and punishment of two thirds of the Senate, consenting
to an improper treaty, than of a majority of that or of the other
branch of the national legislature, consenting to a pernicious or
unconstitutional law, a principle which, I believe, has never been
admitted into any government. How, in fact, could a majority in the
House of Representatives impeach themselves? Not better, it is
evident, than two thirds of the Senate might try themselves. And yet
what reason is there, that a majority of the House of Representatives,
sacrificing the interests of the society by an unjust and tyrannical
act of legislation, should escape with impunity, more than two thirds
of the Senate, sacrificing the same interests in an injurious treaty
with a foreign power? The truth is, that in all such cases it is
essential to the freedom and to the necessary independence of the
deliberations of the body, that the members of it should be exempt
from punishment for acts done in a collective capacity; and the
security to the society must depend on the care which is taken to
confide the trust to proper hands, to make it their interest to
execute it with fidelity, and to make it as difficult as possible for
them to combine in any interest opposite to that of the public good.

So far as might concern the misbehavior of the Executive in perverting
the instructions or contravening the views of the Senate, we need not
be apprehensive of the want of a disposition in that body to punish
the abuse of their confidence or to vindicate their own authority. We
may thus far count upon their pride, if not upon their virtue. And so
far even as might concern the corruption of leading members, by whose
arts and influence the majority may have been inveigled into measures
odious to the community, if the proofs of that corruption should be
satisfactory, the usual propensity of human nature will warrant us in
concluding that there would be commonly no defect of inclination in
the body to divert the public resentment from themselves by a ready
sacrifice of the authors of their mismanagement and disgrace.
THE constitution of the executive department of the proposed
government, claims next our attention.

There is hardly any part of the system which could have been attended
with greater difficulty in the arrangement of it than this; and there
is, perhaps, none which has been inveighed against with less candor or
criticised with less judgment.

Here the writers against the Constitution seem to have taken pains to
signalize their talent of misrepresentation. Calculating upon the
aversion of the people to monarchy, they have endeavored to enlist all
their jealousies and apprehensions in opposition to the intended
President of the United States; not merely as the embryo, but as the
full-grown progeny, of that detested parent. To establish the
pretended affinity, they have not scrupled to draw resources even from
the regions of fiction. The authorities of a magistrate, in few
instances greater, in some instances less, than those of a governor of
New York, have been magnified into more than royal prerogatives. He
has been decorated with attributes superior in dignity and splendor to
those of a king of Great Britain. He has been shown to us with the
diadem sparkling on his brow and the imperial purple flowing in his
train. He has been seated on a throne surrounded with minions and
mistresses, giving audience to the envoys of foreign potentates, in
all the supercilious pomp of majesty. The images of Asiatic despotism
and voluptuousness have scarcely been wanting to crown the exaggerated
scene. We have been taught to tremble at the terrific visages of
murdering janizaries, and to blush at the unveiled mysteries of a
future seraglio.

Attempts so extravagant as these to disfigure or, it might rather be
said, to metamorphose the object, render it necessary to take an
accurate view of its real nature and form: in order as well to
ascertain its true aspect and genuine appearance, as to unmask the
disingenuity and expose the fallacy of the counterfeit resemblances
which have been so insidiously, as well as industriously, propagated.

In the execution of this task, there is no man who would not find it
an arduous effort either to behold with moderation, or to treat with
seriousness, the devices, not less weak than wicked, which have been
contrived to pervert the public opinion in relation to the
subject. They so far exceed the usual though unjustifiable licenses of
party artifice, that even in a disposition the most candid and
tolerant, they must force the sentiments which favor an indulgent
construction of the conduct of political adversaries to give place to
a voluntary and unreserved indignation. It is impossible not to bestow
the imputation of deliberate imposture and deception upon the gross
pretense of a similitude between a king of Great Britain and a
magistrate of the character marked out for that of the President of
the United States. It is still more impossible to withhold that
imputation from the rash and barefaced expedients which have been
employed to give success to the attempted imposition.

In one instance, which I cite as a sample of the general spirit, the
temerity has proceeded so far as to ascribe to the President of the
United States a power which by the instrument reported is EXPRESSLY
allotted to the Executives of the individual States. I mean the power
of filling casual vacancies in the Senate.

This bold experiment upon the discernment of his countrymen has been
hazarded by a writer who (whatever may be his real merit) has had no
inconsiderable share in the applauses of his party [1] ; and who, upon
this false and unfounded suggestion, has built a series of
observations equally false and unfounded. Let him now be confronted
with the evidence of the fact, and let him, if he be able, justify or
extenuate the shameful outrage he has offered to the dictates of truth
and to the rules of fair dealing.

The second clause of the second section of the second article empowers
the President of the United States "to nominate, and by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other
OFFICERS of United States whose appointments are NOT in the
Constitution OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR, and WHICH SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY
LAW." Immediately after this clause follows another in these words:
"The President shall have power to fill up ?? VACANCIES that may
happen DURING THE RECESS OF THE SENATE, by granting commissions which
shall EXPIRE AT THE END OF THEIR NEXT SESSION." It is from this last
provision that the pretended power of the President to fill vacancies
in the Senate has been deduced. A slight attention to the connection
of the clauses, and to the obvious meaning of the terms, will satisfy
us that the deduction is not even colorable.

The first of these two clauses, it is clear, only provides a mode for
appointing such officers, "whose appointments are NOT OTHERWISE
PROVIDED FOR in the Constitution, and which SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY
LAW"; of course it cannot extend to the appointments of senators,
whose appointments are OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR in the Constitution [2]
, and who are ESTABLISHED BY THE CONSTITUTION, and will not require a
future establishment by law. This position will hardly be contested.

The last of these two clauses, it is equally clear, cannot be
understood to comprehend the power of filling vacancies in the Senate,
for the following reasons: First. The relation in which that clause
stands to the other, which declares the general mode of appointing
officers of the United States, denotes it to be nothing more than a
supplement to the other, for the purpose of establishing an auxiliary
method of appointment, in cases to which the general method was
inadequate. The ordinary power of appointment is confined to the
President and Senate JOINTLY, and can therefore only be exercised
during the session of the Senate; but as it would have been improper
to oblige this body to be continually in session for the appointment
of officers and as vacancies might happen IN THEIR RECESS, which it
might be necessary for the public service to fill without delay, the
succeeding clause is evidently intended to authorize the President,
SINGLY, to make temporary appointments "during the recess of the
Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their
next session." Secondly. If this clause is to be considered as
supplementary to the one which precedes, the VACANCIES of which it
speaks must be construed to relate to the "officers" described in the
preceding one; and this, we have seen, excludes from its description
the members of the Senate. Thirdly. The time within which the power is
to operate, "during the recess of the Senate," and the duration of the
appointments, "to the end of the next session" of that body, conspire
to elucidate the sense of the provision, which, if it had been
intended to comprehend senators, would naturally have referred the
temporary power of filling vacancies to the recess of the State
legislatures, who are to make the permanent appointments, and not to
the recess of the national Senate, who are to have no concern in those
appointments; and would have extended the duration in office of the
temporary senators to the next session of the legislature of the
State, in whose representation the vacancies had happened, instead of
making it to expire at the end of the ensuing session of the national
Senate. The circumstances of the body authorized to make the permanent
appointments would, of course, have governed the modification of a
power which related to the temporary appointments; and as the national
Senate is the body, whose situation is alone contemplated in the
clause upon which the suggestion under examination has been founded,
the vacancies to which it alludes can only be deemed to respect those
officers in whose appointment that body has a concurrent agency with
the President. But lastly, the first and second clauses of the third
section of the first article, not only obviate all possibility of
doubt, but destroy the pretext of misconception. The former provides,
that "the Senate of the United States shall be composed of two
Senators from each State, chosen BY THE LEGISLATURE THEREOF for six
years"; and the latter directs, that, "if vacancies in that body
should happen by resignation or otherwise, DURING THE RECESS OF THE
LEGISLATURE OF ANY STATE, the Executive THEREOF may make temporary
appointments until the NEXT MEETING OF THE LEGISLATURE, which shall
then fill such vacancies." Here is an express power given, in clear
and unambiguous terms, to the State Executives, to fill casual
vacancies in the Senate, by temporary appointments; which not only
invalidates the supposition, that the clause before considered could
have been intended to confer that power upon the President of the
United States, but proves that this supposition, destitute as it is
even of the merit of plausibility, must have originated in an
intention to deceive the people, too palpable to be obscured by
sophistry, too atrocious to be palliated by hypocrisy.

I have taken the pains to select this instance of misrepresentation,
and to place it in a clear and strong light, as an unequivocal proof
of the unwarrantable arts which are practiced to prevent a fair and
impartial judgment of the real merits of the Constitution submitted to
the consideration of the people. Nor have I scrupled, in so flagrant a
case, to allow myself a severity of animadversion little congenial
with the general spirit of these papers. I hesitate not to submit it
to the decision of any candid and honest adversary of the proposed
government, whether language can furnish epithets of too much
asperity, for so shameless and so prostitute an attempt to impose on
the citizens of America.
THE mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate of the United States
is almost the only part of the system, of any consequence, which has
escaped without severe censure, or which has received the slightest
mark of approbation from its opponents. The most plausible of these,
who has appeared in print, has even deigned to admit that the election
of the President is pretty well guarded. [1] I venture somewhat
further, and hesitate not to affirm, that if the manner of it be not
perfect, it is at least excellent. It unites in an eminent degree all
the advantages, the union of which was to be wished for.

It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the
choice of the person to whom so important a trust was to be
confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of making
it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people
for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.

It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made
by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station,
and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a
judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were
proper to govern their choice. A small number of persons, selected by
their fellow-citizens from the general mass, will be most likely to
possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated
investigations.

It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little opportunity as
possible to tumult and disorder. This evil was not least to be dreaded
in the election of a magistrate, who was to have so important an
agency in the administration of the government as the President of the
United States. But the precautions which have been so happily
concerted in the system under consideration, promise an effectual
security against this mischief. The choice of SEVERAL, to form an
intermediate body of electors, will be much less apt to convulse the
community with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice
of ONE who was himself to be the final object of the public
wishes. And as the electors, chosen in each State, are to assemble and
vote in the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided
situation will expose them much less to heats and ferments, which
might be communicated from them to the people, than if they were all
to be convened at one time, in one place.

Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle
should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption. These most
deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been
expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter, but
chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper
ascendant in our councils. How could they better gratify this, than by
raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
But the convention have guarded against all danger of this sort, with
the most provident and judicious attention. They have not made the
appointment of the President to depend on any preexisting bodies of
men, who might be tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes;
but they have referred it in the first instance to an immediate act of
the people of America, to be exerted in the choice of persons for the
temporary and sole purpose of making the appointment. And they have
excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who from situation
might be suspected of too great devotion to the President in
office. No senator, representative, or other person holding a place of
trust or profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the
electors. Thus without corrupting the body of the people, the
immediate agents in the election will at least enter upon the task
free from any sinister bias. Their transient existence, and their
detached situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfactory
prospect of their continuing so, to the conclusion of it. The business
of corruption, when it is to embrace so considerable a number of men,
requires time as well as means. Nor would it be found easy suddenly to
embark them, dispersed as they would be over thirteen States, in any
combinations founded upon motives, which though they could not
properly be denominated corrupt, might yet be of a nature to mislead
them from their duty.

Another and no less important desideratum was, that the Executive
should be independent for his continuance in office on all but the
people themselves. He might otherwise be tempted to sacrifice his duty
to his complaisance for those whose favor was necessary to the
duration of his official consequence. This advantage will also be
secured, by making his re-election to depend on a special body of
representatives, deputed by the society for the single purpose of
making the important choice.

All these advantages will happily combine in the plan devised by the
convention; which is, that the people of each State shall choose a
number of persons as electors, equal to the number of senators and
representatives of such State in the national government, who shall
assemble within the State, and vote for some fit person as
President. Their votes, thus given, are to be transmitted to the seat
of the national government, and the person who may happen to have a
majority of the whole number of votes will be the President. But as a
majority of the votes might not always happen to centre in one man,
and as it might be unsafe to permit less than a majority to be
conclusive, it is provided that, in such a contingency, the House of
Representatives shall select out of the candidates who shall have the
five highest number of votes, the man who in their opinion may be best
qualified for the office.

The process of election affords a moral certainty, that the office of
President will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an
eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications. Talents for
low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may alone suffice to
elevate a man to the first honors in a single State; but it will
require other talents, and a different kind of merit, to establish him
in the esteem and confidence of the whole Union, or of so considerable
a portion of it as would be necessary to make him a successful
candidate for the distinguished office of President of the United
States. It will not be too strong to say, that there will be a
constant probability of seeing the station filled by characters
pre-eminent for ability and virtue. And this will be thought no
inconsiderable recommendation of the Constitution, by those who are
able to estimate the share which the executive in every government
must necessarily have in its good or ill administration. Though we
cannot acquiesce in the political heresy of the poet who says: "For
forms of government let fools contest That which is best administered
is best," yet we may safely pronounce, that the true test of a good
government is its aptitude and tendency to produce a good
administration.

The Vice-President is to be chosen in the same manner with the
President; with this difference, that the Senate is to do, in respect
to the former, what is to be done by the House of Representatives, in
respect to the latter.

The appointment of an extraordinary person, as Vice-President, has
been objected to as superfluous, if not mischievous. It has been
alleged, that it would have been preferable to have authorized the
Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that
description. But two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the
convention in this respect. One is, that to secure at all times the
possibility of a definite resolution of the body, it is necessary that
the President should have only a casting vote. And to take the senator
of any State from his seat as senator, to place him in that of
President of the Senate, would be to exchange, in regard to the State
from which he came, a constant for a contingent vote. The other
consideration is, that as the Vice-President may occasionally become a
substitute for the President, in the supreme executive magistracy, all
the reasons which recommend the mode of election prescribed for the
one, apply with great if not with equal force to the manner of
appointing the other. It is remarkable that in this, as in most other
instances, the objection which is made would lie against the
constitution of this State. We have a Lieutenant-Governor, chosen by
the people at large, who presides in the Senate, and is the
constitutional substitute for the Governor, in casualties similar to
those which would authorize the Vice-President to exercise the
authorities and discharge the duties of the President.
I PROCEED now to trace the real characters of the proposed Executive,
as they are marked out in the plan of the convention. This will serve
to place in a strong light the unfairness of the representations which
have been made in regard to it.

The first thing which strikes our attention is, that the executive
authority, with few exceptions, is to be vested in a single
magistrate. This will scarcely, however, be considered as a point upon
which any comparison can be grounded; for if, in this particular,
there be a resemblance to the king of Great Britain, there is not less
a resemblance to the Grand Seignior, to the khan of Tartary, to the
Man of the Seven Mountains, or to the governor of New York.

That magistrate is to be elected for FOUR years; and is to be
re-eligible as often as the people of the United States shall think
him worthy of their confidence. In these circumstances there is a
total dissimilitude between HIM and a king of Great Britain, who is an
HEREDITARY monarch, possessing the crown as a patrimony descendible to
his heirs forever; but there is a close analogy between HIM and a
governor of New York, who is elected for THREE years, and is
re-eligible without limitation or intermission. If we consider how
much less time would be requisite for establishing a dangerous
influence in a single State, than for establishing a like influence
throughout the United States, we must conclude that a duration of FOUR
years for the Chief Magistrate of the Union is a degree of permanency
far less to be dreaded in that office, than a duration of THREE years
for a corresponding office in a single State.

The President of the United States would be liable to be impeached,
tried, and, upon conviction of treason, bribery, or other high crimes
or misdemeanors, removed from office; and would afterwards be liable
to prosecution and punishment in the ordinary course of law. The
person of the king of Great Britain is sacred and inviolable; there is
no constitutional tribunal to which he is amenable; no punishment to
which he can be subjected without involving the crisis of a national
revolution. In this delicate and important circumstance of personal
responsibility, the President of Confederated America would stand upon
no better ground than a governor of New York, and upon worse ground
than the governors of Maryland and Delaware.

The President of the United States is to have power to return a bill,
which shall have passed the two branches of the legislature, for
reconsideration; and the bill so returned is to become a law, if, upon
that reconsideration, it be approved by two thirds of both houses. The
king of Great Britain, on his part, has an absolute negative upon the
acts of the two houses of Parliament. The disuse of that power for a
considerable time past does not affect the reality of its existence;
and is to be ascribed wholly to the crown's having found the means of
substituting influence to authority, or the art of gaining a majority
in one or the other of the two houses, to the necessity of exerting a
prerogative which could seldom be exerted without hazarding some
degree of national agitation. The qualified negative of the President
differs widely from this absolute negative of the British sovereign;
and tallies exactly with the revisionary authority of the council of
revision of this State, of which the governor is a constituent
part. In this respect the power of the President would exceed that of
the governor of New York, because the former would possess, singly,
what the latter shares with the chancellor and judges; but it would be
precisely the same with that of the governor of Massachusetts, whose
constitution, as to this article, seems to have been the original from
which the convention have copied.

The President is to be the ``commander-in-chief of the army and navy
of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when
called into the actual service of the United States. He is to have
power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United
States, EXCEPT IN CASES OF IMPEACHMENT; to recommend to the
consideration of Congress such measures as he shall judge necessary
and expedient; to convene, on extraordinary occasions, both houses of
the legislature, or either of them, and, in case of disagreement
between them WITH RESPECT TO THE TIME OF ADJOURNMENT, to adjourn them
to such time as he shall think proper; to take care that the laws be
faithfully executed; and to commission all officers of the United
States." In most of these particulars, the power of the President will
resemble equally that of the king of Great Britain and of the governor
of New York. The most material points of difference are these:
First. The President will have only the occasional command of such
part of the militia of the nation as by legislative provision may be
called into the actual service of the Union. The king of Great Britain
and the governor of New York have at all times the entire command of
all the militia within their several jurisdictions. In this article,
therefore, the power of the President would be inferior to that of
either the monarch or the governor. Secondly. The President is to be
commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States. In this
respect his authority would be nominally the same with that of the
king of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to it. It would
amount to nothing more than the supreme command and direction of the
military and naval forces, as first General and admiral of the
Confederacy; while that of the British king extends to the DECLARING
of war and to the RAISING and REGULATING of fleets and armies, all
which, by the Constitution under consideration, would appertain to the
legislature. [1] The governor of New York, on the other hand, is by
the constitution of the State vested only with the command of its
militia and navy. But the constitutions of several of the States
expressly declare their governors to be commanders-in-chief, as well
of the army as navy; and it may well be a question, whether those of
New Hampshire and Massachusetts, in particular, do not, in this
instance, confer larger powers upon their respective governors, than
could be claimed by a President of the United States. Thirdly. The
power of the President, in respect to pardons, would extend to all
cases, EXCEPT THOSE OF IMPEACHMENT. The governor of New York may
pardon in all cases, even in those of impeachment, except for treason
and murder. Is not the power of the governor, in this article, on a
calculation of political consequences, greater than that of the
President? All conspiracies and plots against the government, which
have not been matured into actual treason, may be screened from
punishment of every kind, by the interposition of the prerogative of
pardoning. If a governor of New York, therefore, should be at the head
of any such conspiracy, until the design had been ripened into actual
hostility he could insure his accomplices and adherents an entire
impunity. A President of the Union, on the other hand, though he may
even pardon treason, when prosecuted in the ordinary course of law,
could shelter no offender, in any degree, from the effects of
impeachment and conviction. Would not the prospect of a total
indemnity for all the preliminary steps be a greater temptation to
undertake and persevere in an enterprise against the public liberty,
than the mere prospect of an exemption from death and confiscation, if
the final execution of the design, upon an actual appeal to arms,
should miscarry? Would this last expectation have any influence at
all, when the probability was computed, that the person who was to
afford that exemption might himself be involved in the consequences of
the measure, and might be incapacitated by his agency in it from
affording the desired impunity? The better to judge of this matter, it
will be necessary to recollect, that, by the proposed Constitution,
the offense of treason is limited ``to levying war upon the United
States, and adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort";
and that by the laws of New York it is confined within similar
bounds. Fourthly. The President can only adjourn the national
legislature in the single case of disagreement about the time of
adjournment. The British monarch may prorogue or even dissolve the
Parliament. The governor of New York may also prorogue the legislature
of this State for a limited time; a power which, in certain
situations, may be employed to very important purposes.

The President is to have power, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the senators present
concur. The king of Great Britain is the sole and absolute
representative of the nation in all foreign transactions. He can of
his own accord make treaties of peace, commerce, alliance, and of
every other description. It has been insinuated, that his authority in
this respect is not conclusive, and that his conventions with foreign
powers are subject to the revision, and stand in need of the
ratification, of Parliament. But I believe this doctrine was never
heard of, until it was broached upon the present occasion. Every
jurist [2] of that kingdom, and every other man acquainted with its
Constitution, knows, as an established fact, that the prerogative of
making treaties exists in the crown in its utmost plentitude; and that
the compacts entered into by the royal authority have the most
complete legal validity and perfection, independent of any other
sanction. The Parliament, it is true, is sometimes seen employing
itself in altering the existing laws to conform them to the
stipulations in a new treaty; and this may have possibly given birth
to the imagination, that its co-operation was necessary to the
obligatory efficacy of the treaty. But this parliamentary
interposition proceeds from a different cause: from the necessity of
adjusting a most artificial and intricate system of revenue and
commercial laws, to the changes made in them by the operation of the
treaty; and of adapting new provisions and precautions to the new
state of things, to keep the machine from running into disorder. In
this respect, therefore, there is no comparison between the intended
power of the President and the actual power of the British
sovereign. The one can perform alone what the other can do only with
the concurrence of a branch of the legislature. It must be admitted,
that, in this instance, the power of the federal Executive would
exceed that of any State Executive. But this arises naturally from the
sovereign power which relates to treaties. If the Confederacy were to
be dissolved, it would become a question, whether the Executives of
the several States were not solely invested with that delicate and
important prerogative.

The President is also to be authorized to receive ambassadors and
other public ministers. This, though it has been a rich theme of
declamation, is more a matter of dignity than of authority. It is a
circumstance which will be without consequence in the administration
of the government; and it was far more convenient that it should be
arranged in this manner, than that there should be a necessity of
convening the legislature, or one of its branches, upon every arrival
of a foreign minister, though it were merely to take the place of a
departed predecessor.

The President is to nominate, and, WITH THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE
SENATE, to appoint ambassadors and other public ministers, judges of
the Supreme Court, and in general all officers of the United States
established by law, and whose appointments are not otherwise provided
for by the Constitution. The king of Great Britain is emphatically and
truly styled the fountain of honor. He not only appoints to all
offices, but can create offices. He can confer titles of nobility at
pleasure; and has the disposal of an immense number of church
preferments. There is evidently a great inferiority in the power of
the President, in this particular, to that of the British king; nor is
it equal to that of the governor of New York, if we are to interpret
the meaning of the constitution of the State by the practice which has
obtained under it. The power of appointment is with us lodged in a
council, composed of the governor and four members of the Senate,
chosen by the Assembly. The governor CLAIMS, and has frequently
EXERCISED, the right of nomination, and is ENTITLED to a casting vote
in the appointment. If he really has the right of nominating, his
authority is in this respect equal to that of the President, and
exceeds it in the article of the casting vote. In the national
government, if the Senate should be divided, no appointment could be
made; in the government of New York, if the council should be divided,
the governor can turn the scale, and confirm his own nomination. [3]
If we compare the publicity which must necessarily attend the mode of
appointment by the President and an entire branch of the national
legislature, with the privacy in the mode of appointment by the
governor of New York, closeted in a secret apartment with at most
four, and frequently with only two persons; and if we at the same time
consider how much more easy it must be to influence the small number
of which a council of appointment consists, than the considerable
number of which the national Senate would consist, we cannot hesitate
to pronounce that the power of the chief magistrate of this State, in
the disposition of offices, must, in practice, be greatly superior to
that of the Chief Magistrate of the Union.

Hence it appears that, except as to the concurrent authority of the
President in the article of treaties, it would be difficult to
determine whether that magistrate would, in the aggregate, possess
more or less power than the Governor of New York. And it appears yet
more unequivocally, that there is no pretense for the parallel which
has been attempted between him and the king of Great Britain. But to
render the contrast in this respect still more striking, it may be of
use to throw the principal circumstances of dissimilitude into a
closer group.

The President of the United States would be an officer elected by the
people for FOUR years; the king of Great Britain is a perpetual and
HEREDITARY prince. The one would be amenable to personal punishment
and disgrace; the person of the other is sacred and inviolable. The
one would have a QUALIFIED negative upon the acts of the legislative
body; the other has an ABSOLUTE negative. The one would have a right
to command the military and naval forces of the nation; the other, in
addition to this right, possesses that of DECLARING war, and of
RAISING and REGULATING fleets and armies by his own authority. The one
would have a concurrent power with a branch of the legislature in the
formation of treaties; the other is the SOLE POSSESSOR of the power of
making treaties. The one would have a like concurrent authority in
appointing to offices; the other is the sole author of all
appointments. The one can confer no privileges whatever; the other can
make denizens of aliens, noblemen of commoners; can erect corporations
with all the rights incident to corporate bodies. The one can
prescribe no rules concerning the commerce or currency of the nation;
the other is in several respects the arbiter of commerce, and in this
capacity can establish markets and fairs, can regulate weights and
measures, can lay embargoes for a limited time, can coin money, can
authorize or prohibit the circulation of foreign coin. The one has no
particle of spiritual jurisdiction; the other is the supreme head and
governor of the national church! What answer shall we give to those
who would persuade us that things so unlike resemble each other? The
same that ought to be given to those who tell us that a government,
the whole power of which would be in the hands of the elective and
periodical servants of the people, is an aristocracy, a monarchy, and
a despotism.
THERE is an idea, which is not without its advocates, that a vigorous
Executive is inconsistent with the genius of republican
government. The enlightened well-wishers to this species of government
must at least hope that the supposition is destitute of foundation;
since they can never admit its truth, without at the same time
admitting the condemnation of their own principles. Energy in the
Executive is a leading character in the definition of good
government. It is essential to the protection of the community against
foreign attacks; it is not less essential to the steady administration
of the laws; to the protection of property against those irregular and
high-handed combinations which sometimes interrupt the ordinary course
of justice; to the security of liberty against the enterprises and
assaults of ambition, of faction, and of anarchy. Every man the least
conversant in Roman story, knows how often that republic was obliged
to take refuge in the absolute power of a single man, under the
formidable title of Dictator, as well against the intrigues of
ambitious individuals who aspired to the tyranny, and the seditions of
whole classes of the community whose conduct threatened the existence
of all government, as against the invasions of external enemies who
menaced the conquest and destruction of Rome.

There can be no need, however, to multiply arguments or examples on
this head. A feeble Executive implies a feeble execution of the
government. A feeble execution is but another phrase for a bad
execution; and a government ill executed, whatever it may be in
theory, must be, in practice, a bad government.

Taking it for granted, therefore, that all men of sense will agree in
the necessity of an energetic Executive, it will only remain to
inquire, what are the ingredients which constitute this energy? How
far can they be combined with those other ingredients which constitute
safety in the republican sense? And how far does this combination
characterize the plan which has been reported by the convention?  The
ingredients which constitute energy in the Executive are, first,
unity; secondly, duration; thirdly, an adequate provision for its
support; fourthly, competent powers.

The ingredients which constitute safety in the republican sense are,
first, a due dependence on the people, secondly, a due responsibility.

Those politicians and statesmen who have been the most celebrated for
the soundness of their principles and for the justice of their views,
have declared in favor of a single Executive and a numerous
legislature. They have with great propriety, considered energy as the
most necessary qualification of the former, and have regarded this as
most applicable to power in a single hand, while they have, with equal
propriety, considered the latter as best adapted to deliberation and
wisdom, and best calculated to conciliate the confidence of the people
and to secure their privileges and interests.

That unity is conducive to energy will not be disputed. Decision,
activity, secrecy, and despatch will generally characterize the
proceedings of one man in a much more eminent degree than the
proceedings of any greater number; and in proportion as the number is
increased, these qualities will be diminished.

This unity may be destroyed in two ways: either by vesting the power
in two or more magistrates of equal dignity and authority; or by
vesting it ostensibly in one man, subject, in whole or in part, to the
control and co-operation of others, in the capacity of counsellors to
him. Of the first, the two Consuls of Rome may serve as an example; of
the last, we shall find examples in the constitutions of several of
the States. New York and New Jersey, if I recollect right, are the
only States which have intrusted the executive authority wholly to
single men. [1] Both these methods of destroying the unity of the
Executive have their partisans; but the votaries of an executive
council are the most numerous. They are both liable, if not to equal,
to similar objections, and may in most lights be examined in
conjunction.

The experience of other nations will afford little instruction on this
head. As far, however, as it teaches any thing, it teaches us not to
be enamoured of plurality in the Executive. We have seen that the
Achaeans, on an experiment of two Praetors, were induced to abolish
one. The Roman history records many instances of mischiefs to the
republic from the dissensions between the Consuls, and between the
military Tribunes, who were at times substituted for the Consuls. But
it gives us no specimens of any peculiar advantages derived to the
state from the circumstance of the plurality of those
magistrates. That the dissensions between them were not more frequent
or more fatal, is a matter of astonishment, until we advert to the
singular position in which the republic was almost continually placed,
and to the prudent policy pointed out by the circumstances of the
state, and pursued by the Consuls, of making a division of the
government between them. The patricians engaged in a perpetual
struggle with the plebeians for the preservation of their ancient
authorities and dignities; the Consuls, who were generally chosen out
of the former body, were commonly united by the personal interest they
had in the defense of the privileges of their order. In addition to
this motive of union, after the arms of the republic had considerably
expanded the bounds of its empire, it became an established custom
with the Consuls to divide the administration between themselves by
lot one of them remaining at Rome to govern the city and its environs,
the other taking the command in the more distant provinces. This
expedient must, no doubt, have had great influence in preventing those
collisions and rivalships which might otherwise have embroiled the
peace of the republic.

But quitting the dim light of historical research, attaching ourselves
purely to the dictates of reason and good sense, we shall discover
much greater cause to reject than to approve the idea of plurality in
the Executive, under any modification whatever.

Wherever two or more persons are engaged in any common enterprise or
pursuit, there is always danger of difference of opinion. If it be a
public trust or office, in which they are clothed with equal dignity
and authority, there is peculiar danger of personal emulation and even
animosity. From either, and especially from all these causes, the most
bitter dissensions are apt to spring. Whenever these happen, they
lessen the respectability, weaken the authority, and distract the
plans and operation of those whom they divide. If they should
unfortunately assail the supreme executive magistracy of a country,
consisting of a plurality of persons, they might impede or frustrate
the most important measures of the government, in the most critical
emergencies of the state. And what is still worse, they might split
the community into the most violent and irreconcilable factions,
adhering differently to the different individuals who composed the
magistracy.

Men often oppose a thing, merely because they have had no agency in
planning it, or because it may have been planned by those whom they
dislike. But if they have been consulted, and have happened to
disapprove, opposition then becomes, in their estimation, an
indispensable duty of self-love. They seem to think themselves bound
in honor, and by all the motives of personal infallibility, to defeat
the success of what has been resolved upon contrary to their
sentiments. Men of upright, benevolent tempers have too many
opportunities of remarking, with horror, to what desperate lengths
this disposition is sometimes carried, and how often the great
interests of society are sacrificed to the vanity, to the conceit, and
to the obstinacy of individuals, who have credit enough to make their
passions and their caprices interesting to mankind. Perhaps the
question now before the public may, in its consequences, afford
melancholy proofs of the effects of this despicable frailty, or rather
detestable vice, in the human character.

Upon the principles of a free government, inconveniences from the
source just mentioned must necessarily be submitted to in the
formation of the legislature; but it is unnecessary, and therefore
unwise, to introduce them into the constitution of the Executive. It
is here too that they may be most pernicious. In the legislature,
promptitude of decision is oftener an evil than a benefit. The
differences of opinion, and the jarrings of parties in that department
of the government, though they may sometimes obstruct salutary plans,
yet often promote deliberation and circumspection, and serve to check
excesses in the majority. When a resolution too is once taken, the
opposition must be at an end. That resolution is a law, and resistance
to it punishable. But no favorable circumstances palliate or atone for
the disadvantages of dissension in the executive department. Here,
they are pure and unmixed. There is no point at which they cease to
operate. They serve to embarrass and weaken the execution of the plan
or measure to which they relate, from the first step to the final
conclusion of it. They constantly counteract those qualities in the
Executive which are the most necessary ingredients in its composition,
vigor and expedition, and this without any counterbalancing good. In
the conduct of war, in which the energy of the Executive is the
bulwark of the national security, every thing would be to be
apprehended from its plurality.

It must be confessed that these observations apply with principal
weight to the first case supposed that is, to a plurality of
magistrates of equal dignity and authority a scheme, the advocates for
which are not likely to form a numerous sect; but they apply, though
not with equal, yet with considerable weight to the project of a
council, whose concurrence is made constitutionally necessary to the
operations of the ostensible Executive. An artful cabal in that
council would be able to distract and to enervate the whole system of
administration. If no such cabal should exist, the mere diversity of
views and opinions would alone be sufficient to tincture the exercise
of the executive authority with a spirit of habitual feebleness and
dilatoriness.

But one of the weightiest objections to a plurality in the Executive,
and which lies as much against the last as the first plan, is, that it
tends to conceal faults and destroy responsibility.

Responsibility is of two kinds to censure and to punishment. The first
is the more important of the two, especially in an elective
office. Man, in public trust, will much oftener act in such a manner
as to render him unworthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a
manner as to make him obnoxious to legal punishment. But the
multiplication of the Executive adds to the difficulty of detection in
either case. It often becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations,
to determine on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious
measure, or series of pernicious measures, ought really to fall. It is
shifted from one to another with so much dexterity, and under such
plausible appearances, that the public opinion is left in suspense
about the real author. The circumstances which may have led to any
national miscarriage or misfortune are sometimes so complicated that,
where there are a number of actors who may have had different degrees
and kinds of agency, though we may clearly see upon the whole that
there has been mismanagement, yet it may be impracticable to pronounce
to whose account the evil which may have been incurred is truly
chargeable.

``I was overruled by my council. The council were so divided in their
opinions that it was impossible to obtain any better resolution on the
point.'' These and similar pretexts are constantly at hand, whether
true or false. And who is there that will either take the trouble or
incur the odium, of a strict scrutiny into the secret springs of the
transaction? Should there be found a citizen zealous enough to
undertake the unpromising task, if there happen to be collusion
between the parties concerned, how easy it is to clothe the
circumstances with so much ambiguity, as to render it uncertain what
was the precise conduct of any of those parties?  In the single
instance in which the governor of this State is coupled with a council
that is, in the appointment to offices, we have seen the mischiefs of
it in the view now under consideration. Scandalous appointments to
important offices have been made. Some cases, indeed, have been so
flagrant that ALL PARTIES have agreed in the impropriety of the
thing. When inquiry has been made, the blame has been laid by the
governor on the members of the council, who, on their part, have
charged it upon his nomination; while the people remain altogether at
a loss to determine, by whose influence their interests have been
committed to hands so unqualified and so manifestly improper. In
tenderness to individuals, I forbear to descend to particulars.

It is evident from these considerations, that the plurality of the
Executive tends to deprive the people of the two greatest securities
they can have for the faithful exercise of any delegated power, first,
the restraints of public opinion, which lose their efficacy, as well
on account of the division of the censure attendant on bad measures
among a number, as on account of the uncertainty on whom it ought to
fall; and, secondly, the opportunity of discovering with facility and
clearness the misconduct of the persons they trust, in order either to
their removal from office or to their actual punishment in cases which
admit of it.

In England, the king is a perpetual magistrate; and it is a maxim
which has obtained for the sake of the public peace, that he is
unaccountable for his administration, and his person sacred. Nothing,
therefore, can be wiser in that kingdom, than to annex to the king a
constitutional council, who may be responsible to the nation for the
advice they give. Without this, there would be no responsibility
whatever in the executive department an idea inadmissible in a free
government. But even there the king is not bound by the resolutions of
his council, though they are answerable for the advice they give. He
is the absolute master of his own conduct in the exercise of his
office, and may observe or disregard the counsel given to him at his
sole discretion.

But in a republic, where every magistrate ought to be personally
responsible for his behavior in office the reason which in the British
Constitution dictates the propriety of a council, not only ceases to
apply, but turns against the institution. In the monarchy of Great
Britain, it furnishes a substitute for the prohibited responsibility
of the chief magistrate, which serves in some degree as a hostage to
the national justice for his good behavior. In the American republic,
it would serve to destroy, or would greatly diminish, the intended and
necessary responsibility of the Chief Magistrate himself.

The idea of a council to the Executive, which has so generally
obtained in the State constitutions, has been derived from that maxim
of republican jealousy which considers power as safer in the hands of
a number of men than of a single man. If the maxim should be admitted
to be applicable to the case, I should contend that the advantage on
that side would not counterbalance the numerous disadvantages on the
opposite side. But I do not think the rule at all applicable to the
executive power. I clearly concur in opinion, in this particular, with
a writer whom the celebrated Junius pronounces to be ``deep, solid,
and ingenious,'' that ``the executive power is more easily confined
when it is ONE'' [2]; that it is far more safe there should be a
single object for the jealousy and watchfulness of the people; and, in
a word, that all multiplication of the Executive is rather dangerous
than friendly to liberty.

A little consideration will satisfy us, that the species of security
sought for in the multiplication of the Executive, is
attainable. Numbers must be so great as to render combination
difficult, or they are rather a source of danger than of security. The
united credit and influence of several individuals must be more
formidable to liberty, than the credit and influence of either of them
separately. When power, therefore, is placed in the hands of so small
a number of men, as to admit of their interests and views being easily
combined in a common enterprise, by an artful leader, it becomes more
liable to abuse, and more dangerous when abused, than if it be lodged
in the hands of one man; who, from the very circumstance of his being
alone, will be more narrowly watched and more readily suspected, and
who cannot unite so great a mass of influence as when he is associated
with others. The Decemvirs of Rome, whose name denotes their number
[3], were more to be dreaded in their usurpation than any ONE of them
would have been. No person would think of proposing an Executive much
more numerous than that body; from six to a dozen have been suggested
for the number of the council. The extreme of these numbers, is not
too great for an easy combination; and from such a combination America
would have more to fear, than from the ambition of any single
individual. A council to a magistrate, who is himself responsible for
what he does, are generally nothing better than a clog upon his good
intentions, are often the instruments and accomplices of his bad and
are almost always a cloak to his faults.

I forbear to dwell upon the subject of expense; though it be evident
that if the council should be numerous enough to answer the principal
end aimed at by the institution, the salaries of the members, who must
be drawn from their homes to reside at the seat of government, would
form an item in the catalogue of public expenditures too serious to be
incurred for an object of equivocal utility. I will only add that,
prior to the appearance of the Constitution, I rarely met with an
intelligent man from any of the States, who did not admit, as the
result of experience, that the UNITY of the executive of this State
was one of the best of the distinguishing features of our
constitution.
DURATION in office has been mentioned as the second requisite to the
energy of the Executive authority. This has relation to two objects:
to the personal firmness of the executive magistrate, in the
employment of his constitutional powers; and to the stability of the
system of administration which may have been adopted under his
auspices. With regard to the first, it must be evident, that the
longer the duration in office, the greater will be the probability of
obtaining so important an advantage. It is a general principle of
human nature, that a man will be interested in whatever he possesses,
in proportion to the firmness or precariousness of the tenure by which
he holds it; will be less attached to what he holds by a momentary or
uncertain title, than to what he enjoys by a durable or certain title;
and, of course, will be willing to risk more for the sake of the one,
than for the sake of the other. This remark is not less applicable to
a political privilege, or honor, or trust, than to any article of
ordinary property. The inference from it is, that a man acting in the
capacity of chief magistrate, under a consciousness that in a very
short time he MUST lay down his office, will be apt to feel himself
too little interested in it to hazard any material censure or
perplexity, from the independent exertion of his powers, or from
encountering the ill-humors, however transient, which may happen to
prevail, either in a considerable part of the society itself, or even
in a predominant faction in the legislative body. If the case should
only be, that he MIGHT lay it down, unless continued by a new choice,
and if he should be desirous of being continued, his wishes,
conspiring with his fears, would tend still more powerfully to corrupt
his integrity, or debase his fortitude. In either case, feebleness and
irresolution must be the characteristics of the station.

There are some who would be inclined to regard the servile pliancy of
the Executive to a prevailing current, either in the community or in
the legislature, as its best recommendation. But such men entertain
very crude notions, as well of the purposes for which government was
instituted, as of the true means by which the public happiness may be
promoted. The republican principle demands that the deliberate sense
of the community should govern the conduct of those to whom they
intrust the management of their affairs; but it does not require an
unqualified complaisance to every sudden breeze of passion, or to
every transient impulse which the people may receive from the arts of
men, who flatter their prejudices to betray their interests. It is a
just observation, that the people commonly INTEND the PUBLIC
GOOD. This often applies to their very errors. But their good sense
would despise the adulator who should pretend that they always REASON
RIGHT about the MEANS of promoting it. They know from experience that
they sometimes err; and the wonder is that they so seldom err as they
do, beset, as they continually are, by the wiles of parasites and
sycophants, by the snares of the ambitious, the avaricious, the
desperate, by the artifices of men who possess their confidence more
than they deserve it, and of those who seek to possess rather than to
deserve it. When occasions present themselves, in which the interests
of the people are at variance with their inclinations, it is the duty
of the persons whom they have appointed to be the guardians of those
interests, to withstand the temporary delusion, in order to give them
time and opportunity for more cool and sedate reflection. Instances
might be cited in which a conduct of this kind has saved the people
from very fatal consequences of their own mistakes, and has procured
lasting monuments of their gratitude to the men who had courage and
magnanimity enough to serve them at the peril of their displeasure.

But however inclined we might be to insist upon an unbounded
complaisance in the Executive to the inclinations of the people, we
can with no propriety contend for a like complaisance to the humors of
the legislature. The latter may sometimes stand in opposition to the
former, and at other times the people may be entirely neutral. In
either supposition, it is certainly desirable that the Executive
should be in a situation to dare to act his own opinion with vigor and
decision.

The same rule which teaches the propriety of a partition between the
various branches of power, teaches us likewise that this partition
ought to be so contrived as to render the one independent of the
other. To what purpose separate the executive or the judiciary from
the legislative, if both the executive and the judiciary are so
constituted as to be at the absolute devotion of the legislative? Such
a separation must be merely nominal, and incapable of producing the
ends for which it was established. It is one thing to be subordinate
to the laws, and another to be dependent on the legislative body. The
first comports with, the last violates, the fundamental principles of
good government; and, whatever may be the forms of the Constitution,
unites all power in the same hands. The tendency of the legislative
authority to absorb every other, has been fully displayed and
illustrated by examples in some preceding numbers. In governments
purely republican, this tendency is almost irresistible. The
representatives of the people, in a popular assembly, seem sometimes
to fancy that they are the people themselves, and betray strong
symptoms of impatience and disgust at the least sign of opposition
from any other quarter; as if the exercise of its rights, by either
the executive or judiciary, were a breach of their privilege and an
outrage to their dignity. They often appear disposed to exert an
imperious control over the other departments; and as they commonly
have the people on their side, they always act with such momentum as
to make it very difficult for the other members of the government to
maintain the balance of the Constitution.

It may perhaps be asked, how the shortness of the duration in office
can affect the independence of the Executive on the legislature,
unless the one were possessed of the power of appointing or displacing
the other. One answer to this inquiry may be drawn from the principle
already remarked that is, from the slender interest a man is apt to
take in a short-lived advantage, and the little inducement it affords
him to expose himself, on account of it, to any considerable
inconvenience or hazard. Another answer, perhaps more obvious, though
not more conclusive, will result from the consideration of the
influence of the legislative body over the people; which might be
employed to prevent the re-election of a man who, by an upright
resistance to any sinister project of that body, should have made
himself obnoxious to its resentment.

It may be asked also, whether a duration of four years would answer
the end proposed; and if it would not, whether a less period, which
would at least be recommended by greater security against ambitious
designs, would not, for that reason, be preferable to a longer period,
which was, at the same time, too short for the purpose of inspiring
the desired firmness and independence of the magistrate.

It cannot be affirmed, that a duration of four years, or any other
limited duration, would completely answer the end proposed; but it
would contribute towards it in a degree which would have a material
influence upon the spirit and character of the government. Between the
commencement and termination of such a period, there would always be a
considerable interval, in which the prospect of annihilation would be
sufficiently remote, not to have an improper effect upon the conduct
of a man indued with a tolerable portion of fortitude; and in which he
might reasonably promise himself, that there would be time enough
before it arrived, to make the community sensible of the propriety of
the measures he might incline to pursue. Though it be probable that,
as he approached the moment when the public were, by a new election,
to signify their sense of his conduct, his confidence, and with it his
firmness, would decline; yet both the one and the other would derive
support from the opportunities which his previous continuance in the
station had afforded him, of establishing himself in the esteem and
good-will of his constituents. He might, then, hazard with safety, in
proportion to the proofs he had given of his wisdom and integrity, and
to the title he had acquired to the respect and attachment of his
fellow-citizens. As, on the one hand, a duration of four years will
contribute to the firmness of the Executive in a sufficient degree to
render it a very valuable ingredient in the composition; so, on the
other, it is not enough to justify any alarm for the public
liberty. If a British House of Commons, from the most feeble
beginnings, FROM THE MERE POWER OF ASSENTING OR DISAGREEING TO THE
IMPOSITION OF A NEW TAX, have, by rapid strides, reduced the
prerogatives of the crown and the privileges of the nobility within
the limits they conceived to be compatible with the principles of a
free government, while they raised themselves to the rank and
consequence of a coequal branch of the legislature; if they have been
able, in one instance, to abolish both the royalty and the
aristocracy, and to overturn all the ancient establishments, as well
in the Church as State; if they have been able, on a recent occasion,
to make the monarch tremble at the prospect of an innovation [1]
attempted by them, what would be to be feared from an elective
magistrate of four years' duration, with the confined authorities of a
President of the United States? What, but that he might be unequal to
the task which the Constitution assigns him? I shall only add, that if
his duration be such as to leave a doubt of his firmness, that doubt
is inconsistent with a jealousy of his encroachments.
THE administration of government, in its largest sense, comprehends
all the operations of the body politic, whether legislative,
executive, or judiciary; but in its most usual, and perhaps its most
precise signification. it is limited to executive details, and falls
peculiarly within the province of the executive department. The actual
conduct of foreign negotiations, the preparatory plans of finance, the
application and disbursement of the public moneys in conformity to the
general appropriations of the legislature, the arrangement of the army
and navy, the directions of the operations of war, these, and other
matters of a like nature, constitute what seems to be most properly
understood by the administration of government. The persons,
therefore, to whose immediate management these different matters are
committed, ought to be considered as the assistants or deputies of the
chief magistrate, and on this account, they ought to derive their
offices from his appointment, at least from his nomination, and ought
to be subject to his superintendence. This view of the subject will at
once suggest to us the intimate connection between the duration of the
executive magistrate in office and the stability of the system of
administration. To reverse and undo what has been done by a
predecessor, is very often considered by a successor as the best proof
he can give of his own capacity and desert; and in addition to this
propensity, where the alteration has been the result of public choice,
the person substituted is warranted in supposing that the dismission
of his predecessor has proceeded from a dislike to his measures; and
that the less he resembles him, the more he will recommend himself to
the favor of his constituents. These considerations, and the influence
of personal confidences and attachments, would be likely to induce
every new President to promote a change of men to fill the subordinate
stations; and these causes together could not fail to occasion a
disgraceful and ruinous mutability in the administration of the
government.

With a positive duration of considerable extent, I connect the
circumstance of re-eligibility. The first is necessary to give to the
officer himself the inclination and the resolution to act his part
well, and to the community time and leisure to observe the tendency of
his measures, and thence to form an experimental estimate of their
merits. The last is necessary to enable the people, when they see
reason to approve of his conduct, to continue him in his station, in
order to prolong the utility of his talents and virtues, and to secure
to the government the advantage of permanency in a wise system of
administration.

Nothing appears more plausible at first sight, nor more ill-founded
upon close inspection, than a scheme which in relation to the present
point has had some respectable advocates, I mean that of continuing
the chief magistrate in office for a certain time, and then excluding
him from it, either for a limited period or forever after. This
exclusion, whether temporary or perpetual, would have nearly the same
effects, and these effects would be for the most part rather
pernicious than salutary.

One ill effect of the exclusion would be a diminution of the
inducements to good behavior. There are few men who would not feel
much less zeal in the discharge of a duty when they were conscious
that the advantages of the station with which it was connected must be
relinquished at a determinate period, than when they were permitted to
entertain a hope of OBTAINING, by MERITING, a continuance of
them. This position will not be disputed so long as it is admitted
that the desire of reward is one of the strongest incentives of human
conduct; or that the best security for the fidelity of mankind is to
make their interests coincide with their duty. Even the love of fame,
the ruling passion of the noblest minds, which would prompt a man to
plan and undertake extensive and arduous enterprises for the public
benefit, requiring considerable time to mature and perfect them, if he
could flatter himself with the prospect of being allowed to finish
what he had begun, would, on the contrary, deter him from the
undertaking, when he foresaw that he must quit the scene before he
could accomplish the work, and must commit that, together with his own
reputation, to hands which might be unequal or unfriendly to the
task. The most to be expected from the generality of men, in such a
situation, is the negative merit of not doing harm, instead of the
positive merit of doing good.

Another ill effect of the exclusion would be the temptation to sordid
views, to peculation, and, in some instances, to usurpation. An
avaricious man, who might happen to fill the office, looking forward
to a time when he must at all events yield up the emoluments he
enjoyed, would feel a propensity, not easy to be resisted by such a
man, to make the best use of the opportunity he enjoyed while it
lasted, and might not scruple to have recourse to the most corrupt
expedients to make the harvest as abundant as it was transitory;
though the same man, probably, with a different prospect before him,
might content himself with the regular perquisites of his situation,
and might even be unwilling to risk the consequences of an abuse of
his opportunities. His avarice might be a guard upon his avarice. Add
to this that the same man might be vain or ambitious, as well as
avaricious. And if he could expect to prolong his honors by his good
conduct, he might hesitate to sacrifice his appetite for them to his
appetite for gain. But with the prospect before him of approaching an
inevitable annihilation, his avarice would be likely to get the
victory over his caution, his vanity, or his ambition.

An ambitious man, too, when he found himself seated on the summit of
his country's honors, when he looked forward to the time at which he
must descend from the exalted eminence for ever, and reflected that no
exertion of merit on his part could save him from the unwelcome
reverse; such a man, in such a situation, would be much more violently
tempted to embrace a favorable conjuncture for attempting the
prolongation of his power, at every personal hazard, than if he had
the probability of answering the same end by doing his duty.

Would it promote the peace of the community, or the stability of the
government to have half a dozen men who had had credit enough to be
raised to the seat of the supreme magistracy, wandering among the
people like discontented ghosts, and sighing for a place which they
were destined never more to possess?  A third ill effect of the
exclusion would be, the depriving the community of the advantage of
the experience gained by the chief magistrate in the exercise of his
office. That experience is the parent of wisdom, is an adage the truth
of which is recognized by the wisest as well as the simplest of
mankind. What more desirable or more essential than this quality in
the governors of nations? Where more desirable or more essential than
in the first magistrate of a nation? Can it be wise to put this
desirable and essential quality under the ban of the Constitution, and
to declare that the moment it is acquired, its possessor shall be
compelled to abandon the station in which it was acquired, and to
which it is adapted? This, nevertheless, is the precise import of all
those regulations which exclude men from serving their country, by the
choice of their fellow citizens, after they have by a course of
service fitted themselves for doing it with a greater degree of
utility.

A fourth ill effect of the exclusion would be the banishing men from
stations in which, in certain emergencies of the state, their presence
might be of the greatest moment to the public interest or
safety. There is no nation which has not, at one period or another,
experienced an absolute necessity of the services of particular men in
particular situations; perhaps it would not be too strong to say, to
the preservation of its political existence. How unwise, therefore,
must be every such self-denying ordinance as serves to prohibit a
nation from making use of its own citizens in the manner best suited
to its exigencies and circumstances! Without supposing the personal
essentiality of the man, it is evident that a change of the chief
magistrate, at the breaking out of a war, or at any similar crisis,
for another, even of equal merit, would at all times be detrimental to
the community, inasmuch as it would substitute inexperience to
experience, and would tend to unhinge and set afloat the already
settled train of the administration.

A fifth ill effect of the exclusion would be, that it would operate as
a constitutional interdiction of stability in the administration. By
NECESSITATING a change of men, in the first office of the nation, it
would necessitate a mutability of measures. It is not generally to be
expected, that men will vary and measures remain uniform. The contrary
is the usual course of things. And we need not be apprehensive that
there will be too much stability, while there is even the option of
changing; nor need we desire to prohibit the people from continuing
their confidence where they think it may be safely placed, and where,
by constancy on their part, they may obviate the fatal inconveniences
of fluctuating councils and a variable policy.

These are some of the disadvantages which would flow from the
principle of exclusion. They apply most forcibly to the scheme of a
perpetual exclusion; but when we consider that even a partial
exclusion would always render the readmission of the person a remote
and precarious object, the observations which have been made will
apply nearly as fully to one case as to the other.

What are the advantages promised to counterbalance these
disadvantages? They are represented to be: 1st, greater independence
in the magistrate; 2d, greater security to the people. Unless the
exclusion be perpetual, there will be no pretense to infer the first
advantage. But even in that case, may he have no object beyond his
present station, to which he may sacrifice his independence? May he
have no connections, no friends, for whom he may sacrifice it? May he
not be less willing by a firm conduct, to make personal enemies, when
he acts under the impression that a time is fast approaching, on the
arrival of which he not only MAY, but MUST, be exposed to their
resentments, upon an equal, perhaps upon an inferior, footing? It is
not an easy point to determine whether his independence would be most
promoted or impaired by such an arrangement.

As to the second supposed advantage, there is still greater reason to
entertain doubts concerning it. If the exclusion were to be perpetual,
a man of irregular ambition, of whom alone there could be reason in
any case to entertain apprehension, would, with infinite reluctance,
yield to the necessity of taking his leave forever of a post in which
his passion for power and pre-eminence had acquired the force of
habit. And if he had been fortunate or adroit enough to conciliate the
good-will of the people, he might induce them to consider as a very
odious and unjustifiable restraint upon themselves, a provision which
was calculated to debar them of the right of giving a fresh proof of
their attachment to a favorite. There may be conceived circumstances
in which this disgust of the people, seconding the thwarted ambition
of such a favorite, might occasion greater danger to liberty, than
could ever reasonably be dreaded from the possibility of a
perpetuation in office, by the voluntary suffrages of the community,
exercising a constitutional privilege.

There is an excess of refinement in the idea of disabling the people
to continue in office men who had entitled themselves, in their
opinion, to approbation and confidence; the advantages of which are at
best speculative and equivocal, and are overbalanced by disadvantages
far more certain and decisive.
THE third ingredient towards constituting the vigor of the executive
authority, is an adequate provision for its support. It is evident
that, without proper attention to this article, the separation of the
executive from the legislative department would be merely nominal and
nugatory. The legislature, with a discretionary power over the salary
and emoluments of the Chief Magistrate, could render him as obsequious
to their will as they might think proper to make him. They might, in
most cases, either reduce him by famine, or tempt him by largesses, to
surrender at discretion his judgment to their inclinations. These
expressions, taken in all the latitude of the terms, would no doubt
convey more than is intended. There are men who could neither be
distressed nor won into a sacrifice of their duty; but this stern
virtue is the growth of few soils; and in the main it will be found
that a power over a man's support is a power over his will. If it were
necessary to confirm so plain a truth by facts, examples would not be
wanting, even in this country, of the intimidation or seduction of the
Executive by the terrors or allurements of the pecuniary arrangements
of the legislative body.

It is not easy, therefore, to commend too highly the judicious
attention which has been paid to this subject in the proposed
Constitution. It is there provided that "The President of the United
States shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation
WHICH SHALL NEITHER BE INCREASED NOR DIMINISHED DURING THE PERIOD FOR
WHICH HE SHALL HAVE BEEN ELECTED; and he SHALL NOT RECEIVE WITHIN THAT
PERIOD ANY OTHER EMOLUMENT from the United States, or any of them." It
is impossible to imagine any provision which would have been more
eligible than this. The legislature, on the appointment of a
President, is once for all to declare what shall be the compensation
for his services during the time for which he shall have been
elected. This done, they will have no power to alter it, either by
increase or diminution, till a new period of service by a new election
commences. They can neither weaken his fortitude by operating on his
necessities, nor corrupt his integrity by appealing to his
avarice. Neither the Union, nor any of its members, will be at liberty
to give, nor will he be at liberty to receive, any other emolument
than that which may have been determined by the first act. He can, of
course, have no pecuniary inducement to renounce or desert the
independence intended for him by the Constitution.

The last of the requisites to energy, which have been enumerated, are
competent powers. Let us proceed to consider those which are proposed
to be vested in the President of the United States.

The first thing that offers itself to our observation, is the
qualified negative of the President upon the acts or resolutions of
the two houses of the legislature; or, in other words, his power of
returning all bills with objections, to have the effect of preventing
their becoming laws, unless they should afterwards be ratified by two
thirds of each of the component members of the legislative body.

The propensity of the legislative department to intrude upon the
rights, and to absorb the powers, of the other departments, has been
already suggested and repeated; the insufficiency of a mere parchment
delineation of the boundaries of each, has also been remarked upon;
and the necessity of furnishing each with constitutional arms for its
own defense, has been inferred and proved. From these clear and
indubitable principles results the propriety of a negative, either
absolute or qualified, in the Executive, upon the acts of the
legislative branches. Without the one or the other, the former would
be absolutely unable to defend himself against the depredations of the
latter. He might gradually be stripped of his authorities by
successive resolutions, or annihilated by a single vote. And in the
one mode or the other, the legislative and executive powers might
speedily come to be blended in the same hands. If even no propensity
had ever discovered itself in the legislative body to invade the
rights of the Executive, the rules of just reasoning and theoretic
propriety would of themselves teach us, that the one ought not to be
left to the mercy of the other, but ought to possess a constitutional
and effectual power of self defense.

But the power in question has a further use. It not only serves as a
shield to the Executive, but it furnishes an additional security
against the enaction of improper laws. It establishes a salutary check
upon the legislative body, calculated to guard the community against
the effects of faction, precipitancy, or of any impulse unfriendly to
the public good, which may happen to influence a majority of that
body.

The propriety of a negative has, upon some occasions, been combated by
an observation, that it was not to be presumed a single man would
possess more virtue and wisdom than a number of men; and that unless
this presumption should be entertained, it would be improper to give
the executive magistrate any species of control over the legislative
body.

But this observation, when examined, will appear rather specious than
solid. The propriety of the thing does not turn upon the supposition
of superior wisdom or virtue in the Executive, but upon the
supposition that the legislature will not be infallible; that the love
of power may sometimes betray it into a disposition to encroach upon
the rights of other members of the government; that a spirit of
faction may sometimes pervert its deliberations; that impressions of
the moment may sometimes hurry it into measures which itself, on
maturer reflection, would condemn. The primary inducement to
conferring the power in question upon the Executive is, to enable him
to defend himself; the secondary one is to increase the chances in
favor of the community against the passing of bad laws, through haste,
inadvertence, or design. The oftener the measure is brought under
examination, the greater the diversity in the situations of those who
are to examine it, the less must be the danger of those errors which
flow from want of due deliberation, or of those missteps which proceed
from the contagion of some common passion or interest. It is far less
probable, that culpable views of any kind should infect all the parts
of the government at the same moment and in relation to the same
object, than that they should by turns govern and mislead every one of
them.

It may perhaps be said that the power of preventing bad laws includes
that of preventing good ones; and may be used to the one purpose as
well as to the other. But this objection will have little weight with
those who can properly estimate the mischiefs of that inconstancy and
mutability in the laws, which form the greatest blemish in the
character and genius of our governments. They will consider every
institution calculated to restrain the excess of law-making, and to
keep things in the same state in which they happen to be at any given
period, as much more likely to do good than harm; because it is
favorable to greater stability in the system of legislation. The
injury which may possibly be done by defeating a few good laws, will
be amply compensated by the advantage of preventing a number of bad
ones.

Nor is this all. The superior weight and influence of the legislative
body in a free government, and the hazard to the Executive in a trial
of strength with that body, afford a satisfactory security that the
negative would generally be employed with great caution; and there
would oftener be room for a charge of timidity than of rashness in the
exercise of it. A king of Great Britain, with all his train of
sovereign attributes, and with all the influence he draws from a
thousand sources, would, at this day, hesitate to put a negative upon
the joint resolutions of the two houses of Parliament. He would not
fail to exert the utmost resources of that influence to strangle a
measure disagreeable to him, in its progress to the throne, to avoid
being reduced to the dilemma of permitting it to take effect, or of
risking the displeasure of the nation by an opposition to the sense of
the legislative body. Nor is it probable, that he would ultimately
venture to exert his prerogatives, but in a case of manifest
propriety, or extreme necessity. All well-informed men in that kingdom
will accede to the justness of this remark. A very considerable period
has elapsed since the negative of the crown has been exercised.

If a magistrate so powerful and so well fortified as a British
monarch, would have scruples about the exercise of the power under
consideration, how much greater caution may be reasonably expected in
a President of the United States, clothed for the short period of four
years with the executive authority of a government wholly and purely
republican?  It is evident that there would be greater danger of his
not using his power when necessary, than of his using it too often, or
too much. An argument, indeed, against its expediency, has been drawn
from this very source. It has been represented, on this account, as a
power odious in appearance, useless in practice. But it will not
follow, that because it might be rarely exercised, it would never be
exercised. In the case for which it is chiefly designed, that of an
immediate attack upon the constitutional rights of the Executive, or
in a case in which the public good was evidently and palpably
sacrificed, a man of tolerable firmness would avail himself of his
constitutional means of defense, and would listen to the admonitions
of duty and responsibility. In the former supposition, his fortitude
would be stimulated by his immediate interest in the power of his
office; in the latter, by the probability of the sanction of his
constituents, who, though they would naturally incline to the
legislative body in a doubtful case, would hardly suffer their
partiality to delude them in a very plain case. I speak now with an
eye to a magistrate possessing only a common share of firmness. There
are men who, under any circumstances, will have the courage to do
their duty at every hazard.

But the convention have pursued a mean in this business, which will
both facilitate the exercise of the power vested in this respect in
the executive magistrate, and make its efficacy to depend on the sense
of a considerable part of the legislative body. Instead of an absolute
negative, it is proposed to give the Executive the qualified negative
already described. This is a power which would be much more readily
exercised than the other. A man who might be afraid to defeat a law by
his single VETO, might not scruple to return it for reconsideration;
subject to being finally rejected only in the event of more than one
third of each house concurring in the sufficiency of his
objections. He would be encouraged by the reflection, that if his
opposition should prevail, it would embark in it a very respectable
proportion of the legislative body, whose influence would be united
with his in supporting the propriety of his conduct in the public
opinion. A direct and categorical negative has something in the
appearance of it more harsh, and more apt to irritate, than the mere
suggestion of argumentative objections to be approved or disapproved
by those to whom they are addressed. In proportion as it would be less
apt to offend, it would be more apt to be exercised; and for this very
reason, it may in practice be found more effectual. It is to be hoped
that it will not often happen that improper views will govern so large
a proportion as two thirds of both branches of the legislature at the
same time; and this, too, in spite of the counterposing weight of the
Executive. It is at any rate far less probable that this should be the
case, than that such views should taint the resolutions and conduct of
a bare majority. A power of this nature in the Executive, will often
have a silent and unperceived, though forcible, operation. When men,
engaged in unjustifiable pursuits, are aware that obstructions may
come from a quarter which they cannot control, they will often be
restrained by the bare apprehension of opposition, from doing what
they would with eagerness rush into, if no such external impediments
were to be feared.

This qualified negative, as has been elsewhere remarked, is in this
State vested in a council, consisting of the governor, with the
chancellor and judges of the Supreme Court, or any two of them. It has
been freely employed upon a variety of occasions, and frequently with
success. And its utility has become so apparent, that persons who, in
compiling the Constitution, were violent opposers of it, have from
experience become its declared admirers. [1] I have in another place
remarked, that the convention, in the formation of this part of their
plan, had departed from the model of the constitution of this State,
in favor of that of Massachusetts. Two strong reasons may be imagined
for this preference. One is that the judges, who are to be the
interpreters of the law, might receive an improper bias, from having
given a previous opinion in their revisionary capacities; the other is
that by being often associated with the Executive, they might be
induced to embark too far in the political views of that magistrate,
and thus a dangerous combination might by degrees be cemented between
the executive and judiciary departments. It is impossible to keep the
judges too distinct from every other avocation than that of expounding
the laws. It is peculiarly dangerous to place them in a situation to
be either corrupted or influenced by the Executive.
