THE power of regulating the militia, and of commanding its services in
times of insurrection and invasion are natural incidents to the duties
of superintending the common defense, and of watching over the
internal peace of the Confederacy.

It requires no skill in the science of war to discern that uniformity
in the organization and discipline of the militia would be attended
with the most beneficial effects, whenever they were called into
service for the public defense. It would enable them to discharge the
duties of the camp and of the field with mutual intelligence and
concert an advantage of peculiar moment in the operations of an army;
and it would fit them much sooner to acquire the degree of proficiency
in military functions which would be essential to their
usefulness. This desirable uniformity can only be accomplished by
confiding the regulation of the militia to the direction of the
national authority. It is, therefore, with the most evident propriety,
that the plan of the convention proposes to empower the Union "to
provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and for
governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the
United States, RESERVING TO THE STATES RESPECTIVELY THE APPOINTMENT OF
THE OFFICERS, AND THE AUTHORITY OF TRAINING THE MILITIA ACCORDING TO
THE DISCIPLINE PRESCRIBED BY CONGRESS."  Of the different grounds
which have been taken in opposition to the plan of the convention,
there is none that was so little to have been expected, or is so
untenable in itself, as the one from which this particular provision
has been attacked. If a well-regulated militia be the most natural
defense of a free country, it ought certainly to be under the
regulation and at the disposal of that body which is constituted the
guardian of the national security. If standing armies are dangerous to
liberty, an efficacious power over the militia, in the body to whose
care the protection of the State is committed, ought, as far as
possible, to take away the inducement and the pretext to such
unfriendly institutions. If the federal government can command the aid
of the militia in those emergencies which call for the military arm in
support of the civil magistrate, it can the better dispense with the
employment of a different kind of force. If it cannot avail itself of
the former, it will be obliged to recur to the latter. To render an
army unnecessary, will be a more certain method of preventing its
existence than a thousand prohibitions upon paper.

In order to cast an odium upon the power of calling forth the militia
to execute the laws of the Union, it has been remarked that there is
nowhere any provision in the proposed Constitution for calling out the
POSSE COMITATUS, to assist the magistrate in the execution of his
duty, whence it has been inferred, that military force was intended to
be his only auxiliary. There is a striking incoherence in the
objections which have appeared, and sometimes even from the same
quarter, not much calculated to inspire a very favorable opinion of
the sincerity or fair dealing of their authors. The same persons who
tell us in one breath, that the powers of the federal government will
be despotic and unlimited, inform us in the next, that it has not
authority sufficient even to call out the POSSE COMITATUS. The latter,
fortunately, is as much short of the truth as the former exceeds
it. It would be as absurd to doubt, that a right to pass all laws
NECESSARY AND PROPER to execute its declared powers, would include
that of requiring the assistance of the citizens to the officers who
may be intrusted with the execution of those laws, as it would be to
believe, that a right to enact laws necessary and proper for the
imposition and collection of taxes would involve that of varying the
rules of descent and of the alienation of landed property, or of
abolishing the trial by jury in cases relating to it. It being
therefore evident that the supposition of a want of power to require
the aid of the POSSE COMITATUS is entirely destitute of color, it will
follow, that the conclusion which has been drawn from it, in its
application to the authority of the federal government over the
militia, is as uncandid as it is illogical. What reason could there be
to infer, that force was intended to be the sole instrument of
authority, merely because there is a power to make use of it when
necessary? What shall we think of the motives which could induce men
of sense to reason in this manner? How shall we prevent a conflict
between charity and judgment?  By a curious refinement upon the spirit
of republican jealousy, we are even taught to apprehend danger from
the militia itself, in the hands of the federal government. It is
observed that select corps may be formed, composed of the young and
ardent, who may be rendered subservient to the views of arbitrary
power. What plan for the regulation of the militia may be pursued by
the national government, is impossible to be foreseen. But so far from
viewing the matter in the same light with those who object to select
corps as dangerous, were the Constitution ratified, and were I to
deliver my sentiments to a member of the federal legislature from this
State on the subject of a militia establishment, I should hold to him,
in substance, the following discourse: "The project of disciplining
all the militia of the United States is as futile as it would be
injurious, if it were capable of being carried into execution. A
tolerable expertness in military movements is a business that requires
time and practice. It is not a day, or even a week, that will suffice
for the attainment of it. To oblige the great body of the yeomanry,
and of the other classes of the citizens, to be under arms for the
purpose of going through military exercises and evolutions, as often
as might be necessary to acquire the degree of perfection which would
entitle them to the character of a well-regulated militia, would be a
real grievance to the people, and a serious public inconvenience and
loss. It would form an annual deduction from the productive labor of
the country, to an amount which, calculating upon the present numbers
of the people, would not fall far short of the whole expense of the
civil establishments of all the States. To attempt a thing which would
abridge the mass of labor and industry to so considerable an extent,
would be unwise: and the experiment, if made, could not succeed,
because it would not long be endured. Little more can reasonably be
aimed at, with respect to the people at large, than to have them
properly armed and equipped; and in order to see that this be not
neglected, it will be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the
course of a year.

"But though the scheme of disciplining the whole nation must be
abandoned as mischievous or impracticable; yet it is a matter of the
utmost importance that a well-digested plan should, as soon as
possible, be adopted for the proper establishment of the militia. The
attention of the government ought particularly to be directed to the
formation of a select corps of moderate extent, upon such principles
as will really fit them for service in case of need. By thus
circumscribing the plan, it will be possible to have an excellent body
of well-trained militia, ready to take the field whenever the defense
of the State shall require it. This will not only lessen the call for
military establishments, but if circumstances should at any time
oblige the government to form an army of any magnitude that army can
never be formidable to the liberties of the people while there is a
large body of citizens, little, if at all, inferior to them in
discipline and the use of arms, who stand ready to defend their own
rights and those of their fellow-citizens. This appears to me the only
substitute that can be devised for a standing army, and the best
possible security against it, if it should exist."  Thus differently
from the adversaries of the proposed Constitution should I reason on
the same subject, deducing arguments of safety from the very sources
which they represent as fraught with danger and perdition. But how the
national legislature may reason on the point, is a thing which neither
they nor I can foresee.

There is something so far-fetched and so extravagant in the idea of
danger to liberty from the militia, that one is at a loss whether to
treat it with gravity or with raillery; whether to consider it as a
mere trial of skill, like the paradoxes of rhetoricians; as a
disingenuous artifice to instil prejudices at any price; or as the
serious offspring of political fanaticism. Where in the name of
common-sense, are our fears to end if we may not trust our sons, our
brothers, our neighbors, our fellow-citizens? What shadow of danger
can there be from men who are daily mingling with the rest of their
countrymen and who participate with them in the same feelings,
sentiments, habits and interests? What reasonable cause of
apprehension can be inferred from a power in the Union to prescribe
regulations for the militia, and to command its services when
necessary, while the particular States are to have the SOLE AND
EXCLUSIVE APPOINTMENT OF THE OFFICERS? If it were possible seriously
to indulge a jealousy of the militia upon any conceivable
establishment under the federal government, the circumstance of the
officers being in the appointment of the States ought at once to
extinguish it. There can be no doubt that this circumstance will
always secure to them a preponderating influence over the militia.

In reading many of the publications against the Constitution, a man is
apt to imagine that he is perusing some ill-written tale or romance,
which instead of natural and agreeable images, exhibits to the mind
nothing but frightful and distorted shapes "Gorgons, hydras, and
chimeras dire"; discoloring and disfiguring whatever it represents,
and transforming everything it touches into a monster.

A sample of this is to be observed in the exaggerated and improbable
suggestions which have taken place respecting the power of calling for
the services of the militia. That of New Hampshire is to be marched to
Georgia, of Georgia to New Hampshire, of New York to Kentucky, and of
Kentucky to Lake Champlain. Nay, the debts due to the French and Dutch
are to be paid in militiamen instead of louis d'ors and ducats. At one
moment there is to be a large army to lay prostrate the liberties of
the people; at another moment the militia of Virginia are to be
dragged from their homes five or six hundred miles, to tame the
republican contumacy of Massachusetts; and that of Massachusetts is to
be transported an equal distance to subdue the refractory haughtiness
of the aristocratic Virginians. Do the persons who rave at this rate
imagine that their art or their eloquence can impose any conceits or
absurdities upon the people of America for infallible truths?  If
there should be an army to be made use of as the engine of despotism,
what need of the militia? If there should be no army, whither would
the militia, irritated by being called upon to undertake a distant and
hopeless expedition, for the purpose of riveting the chains of slavery
upon a part of their countrymen, direct their course, but to the seat
of the tyrants, who had meditated so foolish as well as so wicked a
project, to crush them in their imagined intrenchments of power, and
to make them an example of the just vengeance of an abused and
incensed people? Is this the way in which usurpers stride to dominion
over a numerous and enlightened nation? Do they begin by exciting the
detestation of the very instruments of their intended usurpations? Do
they usually commence their career by wanton and disgustful acts of
power, calculated to answer no end, but to draw upon themselves
universal hatred and execration? Are suppositions of this sort the
sober admonitions of discerning patriots to a discerning people? Or
are they the inflammatory ravings of incendiaries or distempered
enthusiasts? If we were even to suppose the national rulers actuated
by the most ungovernable ambition, it is impossible to believe that
they would employ such preposterous means to accomplish their designs.

In times of insurrection, or invasion, it would be natural and proper
that the militia of a neighboring State should be marched into
another, to resist a common enemy, or to guard the republic against
the violence of faction or sedition. This was frequently the case, in
respect to the first object, in the course of the late war; and this
mutual succor is, indeed, a principal end of our political
association. If the power of affording it be placed under the
direction of the Union, there will be no danger of a supine and
listless inattention to the dangers of a neighbor, till its near
approach had superadded the incitements of selfpreservation to the too
feeble impulses of duty and sympathy.
IT HAS been already observed that the federal government ought to
possess the power of providing for the support of the national forces;
in which proposition was intended to be included the expense of
raising troops, of building and equipping fleets, and all other
expenses in any wise connected with military arrangements and
operations. But these are not the only objects to which the
jurisdiction of the Union, in respect to revenue, must necessarily be
empowered to extend. It must embrace a provision for the support of
the national civil list; for the payment of the national debts
contracted, or that may be contracted; and, in general, for all those
matters which will call for disbursements out of the national
treasury. The conclusion is, that there must be interwoven, in the
frame of the government, a general power of taxation, in one shape or
another.

Money is, with propriety, considered as the vital principle of the
body politic; as that which sustains its life and motion, and enables
it to perform its most essential functions. A complete power,
therefore, to procure a regular and adequate supply of it, as far as
the resources of the community will permit, may be regarded as an
indispensable ingredient in every constitution. From a deficiency in
this particular, one of two evils must ensue; either the people must
be subjected to continual plunder, as a substitute for a more eligible
mode of supplying the public wants, or the government must sink into a
fatal atrophy, and, in a short course of time, perish.

In the Ottoman or Turkish empire, the sovereign, though in other
respects absolute master of the lives and fortunes of his subjects,
has no right to impose a new tax. The consequence is that he permits
the bashaws or governors of provinces to pillage the people without
mercy; and, in turn, squeezes out of them the sums of which he stands
in need, to satisfy his own exigencies and those of the state. In
America, from a like cause, the government of the Union has gradually
dwindled into a state of decay, approaching nearly to
annihilation. Who can doubt, that the happiness of the people in both
countries would be promoted by competent authorities in the proper
hands, to provide the revenues which the necessities of the public
might require?  The present Confederation, feeble as it is intended to
repose in the United States, an unlimited power of providing for the
pecuniary wants of the Union. But proceeding upon an erroneous
principle, it has been done in such a manner as entirely to have
frustrated the intention. Congress, by the articles which compose that
compact (as has already been stated), are authorized to ascertain and
call for any sums of money necessary, in their judgment, to the
service of the United States; and their requisitions, if conformable
to the rule of apportionment, are in every constitutional sense
obligatory upon the States. These have no right to question the
propriety of the demand; no discretion beyond that of devising the
ways and means of furnishing the sums demanded. But though this be
strictly and truly the case; though the assumption of such a right
would be an infringement of the articles of Union; though it may
seldom or never have been avowedly claimed, yet in practice it has
been constantly exercised, and would continue to be so, as long as the
revenues of the Confederacy should remain dependent on the
intermediate agency of its members. What the consequences of this
system have been, is within the knowledge of every man the least
conversant in our public affairs, and has been amply unfolded in
different parts of these inquiries. It is this which has chiefly
contributed to reduce us to a situation, which affords ample cause
both of mortification to ourselves, and of triumph to our enemies.

What remedy can there be for this situation, but in a change of the
system which has produced it in a change of the fallacious and
delusive system of quotas and requisitions? What substitute can there
be imagined for this ignis fatuus in finance, but that of permitting
the national government to raise its own revenues by the ordinary
methods of taxation authorized in every well-ordered constitution of
civil government? Ingenious men may declaim with plausibility on any
subject; but no human ingenuity can point out any other expedient to
rescue us from the inconveniences and embarrassments naturally
resulting from defective supplies of the public treasury.

The more intelligent adversaries of the new Constitution admit the
force of this reasoning; but they qualify their admission by a
distinction between what they call INTERNAL and EXTERNAL taxation. The
former they would reserve to the State governments; the latter, which
they explain into commercial imposts, or rather duties on imported
articles, they declare themselves willing to concede to the federal
head. This distinction, however, would violate the maxim of good sense
and sound policy, which dictates that every POWER ought to be in
proportion to its OBJECT; and would still leave the general government
in a kind of tutelage to the State governments, inconsistent with
every idea of vigor or efficiency. Who can pretend that commercial
imposts are, or would be, alone equal to the present and future
exigencies of the Union? Taking into the account the existing debt,
foreign and domestic, upon any plan of extinguishment which a man
moderately impressed with the importance of public justice and public
credit could approve, in addition to the establishments which all
parties will acknowledge to be necessary, we could not reasonably
flatter ourselves, that this resource alone, upon the most improved
scale, would even suffice for its present necessities. Its future
necessities admit not of calculation or limitation; and upon the
principle, more than once adverted to, the power of making provision
for them as they arise ought to be equally unconfined. I believe it
may be regarded as a position warranted by the history of mankind,
that, IN THE USUAL PROGRESS OF THINGS, THE NECESSITIES OF A NATION, IN
EVERY STAGE OF ITS EXISTENCE, WILL BE FOUND AT LEAST EQUAL TO ITS
RESOURCES.

To say that deficiencies may be provided for by requisitions upon the
States, is on the one hand to acknowledge that this system cannot be
depended upon, and on the other hand to depend upon it for every thing
beyond a certain limit. Those who have carefully attended to its vices
and deformities as they have been exhibited by experience or
delineated in the course of these papers, must feel invincible
repugnancy to trusting the national interests in any degree to its
operation. Its inevitable tendency, whenever it is brought into
activity, must be to enfeeble the Union, and sow the seeds of discord
and contention between the federal head and its members, and between
the members themselves. Can it be expected that the deficiencies would
be better supplied in this mode than the total wants of the Union have
heretofore been supplied in the same mode? It ought to be recollected
that if less will be required from the States, they will have
proportionably less means to answer the demand. If the opinions of
those who contend for the distinction which has been mentioned were to
be received as evidence of truth, one would be led to conclude that
there was some known point in the economy of national affairs at which
it would be safe to stop and to say: Thus far the ends of public
happiness will be promoted by supplying the wants of government, and
all beyond this is unworthy of our care or anxiety. How is it possible
that a government half supplied and always necessitous, can fulfill
the purposes of its institution, can provide for the security, advance
the prosperity, or support the reputation of the commonwealth? How can
it ever possess either energy or stability, dignity or credit,
confidence at home or respectability abroad? How can its
administration be any thing else than a succession of expedients
temporizing, impotent, disgraceful? How will it be able to avoid a
frequent sacrifice of its engagements to immediate necessity? How can
it undertake or execute any liberal or enlarged plans of public good?
Let us attend to what would be the effects of this situation in the
very first war in which we should happen to be engaged. We will
presume, for argument's sake, that the revenue arising from the impost
duties answers the purposes of a provision for the public debt and of
a peace establishment for the Union. Thus circumstanced, a war breaks
out. What would be the probable conduct of the government in such an
emergency? Taught by experience that proper dependence could not be
placed on the success of requisitions, unable by its own authority to
lay hold of fresh resources, and urged by considerations of national
danger, would it not be driven to the expedient of diverting the funds
already appropriated from their proper objects to the defense of the
State? It is not easy to see how a step of this kind could be avoided;
and if it should be taken, it is evident that it would prove the
destruction of public credit at the very moment that it was becoming
essential to the public safety. To imagine that at such a crisis
credit might be dispensed with, would be the extreme of
infatuation. In the modern system of war, nations the most wealthy are
obliged to have recourse to large loans. A country so little opulent
as ours must feel this necessity in a much stronger degree. But who
would lend to a government that prefaced its overtures for borrowing
by an act which demonstrated that no reliance could be placed on the
steadiness of its measures for paying? The loans it might be able to
procure would be as limited in their extent as burdensome in their
conditions. They would be made upon the same principles that usurers
commonly lend to bankrupt and fraudulent debtors, with a sparing hand
and at enormous premiums.

It may perhaps be imagined that, from the scantiness of the resources
of the country, the necessity of diverting the established funds in
the case supposed would exist, though the national government should
possess an unrestrained power of taxation. But two considerations will
serve to quiet all apprehension on this head: one is, that we are sure
the resources of the community, in their full extent, will be brought
into activity for the benefit of the Union; the other is, that
whatever deficiences there may be, can without difficulty be supplied
by loans.

The power of creating new funds upon new objects of taxation, by its
own authority, would enable the national government to borrow as far
as its necessities might require. Foreigners, as well as the citizens
of America, could then reasonably repose confidence in its
engagements; but to depend upon a government that must itself depend
upon thirteen other governments for the means of fulfilling its
contracts, when once its situation is clearly understood, would
require a degree of credulity not often to be met with in the
pecuniary transactions of mankind, and little reconcilable with the
usual sharp-sightedness of avarice.

Reflections of this kind may have trifling weight with men who hope to
see realized in America the halcyon scenes of the poetic or fabulous
age; but to those who believe we are likely to experience a common
portion of the vicissitudes and calamities which have fallen to the
lot of other nations, they must appear entitled to serious
attention. Such men must behold the actual situation of their country
with painful solicitude, and deprecate the evils which ambition or
revenge might, with too much facility, inflict upon it.
IN DISQUISITIONS of every kind, there are certain primary truths, or
first principles, upon which all subsequent reasonings must
depend. These contain an internal evidence which, antecedent to all
reflection or combination, commands the assent of the mind. Where it
produces not this effect, it must proceed either from some defect or
disorder in the organs of perception, or from the influence of some
strong interest, or passion, or prejudice. Of this nature are the
maxims in geometry, that "the whole is greater than its part; things
equal to the same are equal to one another; two straight lines cannot
enclose a space; and all right angles are equal to each other." Of the
same nature are these other maxims in ethics and politics, that there
cannot be an effect without a cause; that the means ought to be
proportioned to the end; that every power ought to be commensurate
with its object; that there ought to be no limitation of a power
destined to effect a purpose which is itself incapable of
limitation. And there are other truths in the two latter sciences
which, if they cannot pretend to rank in the class of axioms, are yet
such direct inferences from them, and so obvious in themselves, and so
agreeable to the natural and unsophisticated dictates of common-sense,
that they challenge the assent of a sound and unbiased mind, with a
degree of force and conviction almost equally irresistible.

The objects of geometrical inquiry are so entirely abstracted from
those pursuits which stir up and put in motion the unruly passions of
the human heart, that mankind, without difficulty, adopt not only the
more simple theorems of the science, but even those abstruse paradoxes
which, however they may appear susceptible of demonstration, are at
variance with the natural conceptions which the mind, without the aid
of philosophy, would be led to entertain upon the subject. The
INFINITE DIVISIBILITY of matter, or, in other words, the INFINITE
divisibility of a FINITE thing, extending even to the minutest atom,
is a point agreed among geometricians, though not less
incomprehensible to common-sense than any of those mysteries in
religion, against which the batteries of infidelity have been so
industriously leveled.

But in the sciences of morals and politics, men are found far less
tractable. To a certain degree, it is right and useful that this
should be the case. Caution and investigation are a necessary armor
against error and imposition. But this untractableness may be carried
too far, and may degenerate into obstinacy, perverseness, or
disingenuity. Though it cannot be pretended that the principles of
moral and political knowledge have, in general, the same degree of
certainty with those of the mathematics, yet they have much better
claims in this respect than, to judge from the conduct of men in
particular situations, we should be disposed to allow them. The
obscurity is much oftener in the passions and prejudices of the
reasoner than in the subject. Men, upon too many occasions, do not
give their own understandings fair play; but, yielding to some
untoward bias, they entangle themselves in words and confound
themselves in subtleties.

How else could it happen (if we admit the objectors to be sincere in
their opposition), that positions so clear as those which manifest the
necessity of a general power of taxation in the government of the
Union, should have to encounter any adversaries among men of
discernment? Though these positions have been elsewhere fully stated,
they will perhaps not be improperly recapitulated in this place, as
introductory to an examination of what may have been offered by way of
objection to them. They are in substance as follows: A government
ought to contain in itself every power requisite to the full
accomplishment of the objects committed to its care, and to the
complete execution of the trusts for which it is responsible, free
from every other control but a regard to the public good and to the
sense of the people.

As the duties of superintending the national defense and of securing
the public peace against foreign or domestic violence involve a
provision for casualties and dangers to which no possible limits can
be assigned, the power of making that provision ought to know no other
bounds than the exigencies of the nation and the resources of the
community.

As revenue is the essential engine by which the means of answering the
national exigencies must be procured, the power of procuring that
article in its full extent must necessarily be comprehended in that of
providing for those exigencies.

As theory and practice conspire to prove that the power of procuring
revenue is unavailing when exercised over the States in their
collective capacities, the federal government must of necessity be
invested with an unqualified power of taxation in the ordinary modes.

Did not experience evince the contrary, it would be natural to
conclude that the propriety of a general power of taxation in the
national government might safely be permitted to rest on the evidence
of these propositions, unassisted by any additional arguments or
illustrations. But we find, in fact, that the antagonists of the
proposed Constitution, so far from acquiescing in their justness or
truth, seem to make their principal and most zealous effort against
this part of the plan. It may therefore be satisfactory to analyze the
arguments with which they combat it.

Those of them which have been most labored with that view, seem in
substance to amount to this: "It is not true, because the exigencies
of the Union may not be susceptible of limitation, that its power of
laying taxes ought to be unconfined. Revenue is as requisite to the
purposes of the local administrations as to those of the Union; and
the former are at least of equal importance with the latter to the
happiness of the people. It is, therefore, as necessary that the State
governments should be able to command the means of supplying their
wants, as that the national government should possess the like faculty
in respect to the wants of the Union. But an indefinite power of
taxation in the LATTER might, and probably would in time, deprive the
FORMER of the means of providing for their own necessities; and would
subject them entirely to the mercy of the national legislature. As the
laws of the Union are to become the supreme law of the land, as it is
to have power to pass all laws that may be NECESSARY for carrying into
execution the authorities with which it is proposed to vest it, the
national government might at any time abolish the taxes imposed for
State objects upon the pretense of an interference with its own. It
might allege a necessity of doing this in order to give efficacy to
the national revenues. And thus all the resources of taxation might by
degrees become the subjects of federal monopoly, to the entire
exclusion and destruction of the State governments."  This mode of
reasoning appears sometimes to turn upon the supposition of usurpation
in the national government; at other times it seems to be designed
only as a deduction from the constitutional operation of its intended
powers. It is only in the latter light that it can be admitted to have
any pretensions to fairness. The moment we launch into conjectures
about the usurpations of the federal government, we get into an
unfathomable abyss, and fairly put ourselves out of the reach of all
reasoning. Imagination may range at pleasure till it gets bewildered
amidst the labyrinths of an enchanted castle, and knows not on which
side to turn to extricate itself from the perplexities into which it
has so rashly adventured. Whatever may be the limits or modifications
of the powers of the Union, it is easy to imagine an endless train of
possible dangers; and by indulging an excess of jealousy and timidity,
we may bring ourselves to a state of absolute scepticism and
irresolution. I repeat here what I have observed in substance in
another place, that all observations founded upon the danger of
usurpation ought to be referred to the composition and structure of
the government, not to the nature or extent of its powers. The State
governments, by their original constitutions, are invested with
complete sovereignty. In what does our security consist against
usurpation from that quarter? Doubtless in the manner of their
formation, and in a due dependence of those who are to administer them
upon the people. If the proposed construction of the federal
government be found, upon an impartial examination of it, to be such
as to afford, to a proper extent, the same species of security, all
apprehensions on the score of usurpation ought to be discarded.

It should not be forgotten that a disposition in the State governments
to encroach upon the rights of the Union is quite as probable as a
disposition in the Union to encroach upon the rights of the State
governments. What side would be likely to prevail in such a conflict,
must depend on the means which the contending parties could employ
toward insuring success. As in republics strength is always on the
side of the people, and as there are weighty reasons to induce a
belief that the State governments will commonly possess most influence
over them, the natural conclusion is that such contests will be most
apt to end to the disadvantage of the Union; and that there is greater
probability of encroachments by the members upon the federal head,
than by the federal head upon the members. But it is evident that all
conjectures of this kind must be extremely vague and fallible: and
that it is by far the safest course to lay them altogether aside, and
to confine our attention wholly to the nature and extent of the powers
as they are delineated in the Constitution. Every thing beyond this
must be left to the prudence and firmness of the people; who, as they
will hold the scales in their own hands, it is to be hoped, will
always take care to preserve the constitutional equilibrium between
the general and the State governments. Upon this ground, which is
evidently the true one, it will not be difficult to obviate the
objections which have been made to an indefinite power of taxation in
the United States.
ALTHOUGH I am of opinion that there would be no real danger of the
consequences which seem to be apprehended to the State governments
from a power in the Union to control them in the levies of money,
because I am persuaded that the sense of the people, the extreme
hazard of provoking the resentments of the State governments, and a
conviction of the utility and necessity of local administrations for
local purposes, would be a complete barrier against the oppressive use
of such a power; yet I am willing here to allow, in its full extent,
the justness of the reasoning which requires that the individual
States should possess an independent and uncontrollable authority to
raise their own revenues for the supply of their own wants. And making
this concession, I affirm that (with the sole exception of duties on
imports and exports) they would, under the plan of the convention,
retain that authority in the most absolute and unqualified sense; and
that an attempt on the part of the national government to abridge them
in the exercise of it, would be a violent assumption of power,
unwarranted by any article or clause of its Constitution.

An entire consolidation of the States into one complete national
sovereignty would imply an entire subordination of the parts; and
whatever powers might remain in them, would be altogether dependent on
the general will. But as the plan of the convention aims only at a
partial union or consolidation, the State governments would clearly
retain all the rights of sovereignty which they before had, and which
were not, by that act, EXCLUSIVELY delegated to the United
States. This exclusive delegation, or rather this alienation, of State
sovereignty, would only exist in three cases: where the Constitution
in express terms granted an exclusive authority to the Union; where it
granted in one instance an authority to the Union, and in another
prohibited the States from exercising the like authority; and where it
granted an authority to the Union, to which a similar authority in the
States would be absolutely and totally CONTRADICTORY and REPUGNANT. I
use these terms to distinguish this last case from another which might
appear to resemble it, but which would, in fact, be essentially
different; I mean where the exercise of a concurrent jurisdiction
might be productive of occasional interferences in the POLICY of any
branch of administration, but would not imply any direct contradiction
or repugnancy in point of constitutional authority. These three cases
of exclusive jurisdiction in the federal government may be exemplified
by the following instances: The last clause but one in the eighth
section of the first article provides expressly that Congress shall
exercise "EXCLUSIVE LEGISLATION" over the district to be appropriated
as the seat of government. This answers to the first case. The first
clause of the same section empowers Congress "TO LAY AND COLLECT
TAXES, DUTIES, IMPOSTS AND EXCISES"; and the second clause of the
tenth section of the same article declares that, "NO STATE SHALL,
without the consent of Congress, LAY ANY IMPOSTS OR DUTIES ON IMPORTS
OR EXPORTS, except for the purpose of executing its inspection laws."
Hence would result an exclusive power in the Union to lay duties on
imports and exports, with the particular exception mentioned; but this
power is abridged by another clause, which declares that no tax or
duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State; in consequence
of which qualification, it now only extends to the DUTIES ON
IMPORTS. This answers to the second case. The third will be found in
that clause which declares that Congress shall have power "to
establish an UNIFORM RULE of naturalization throughout the United
States." This must necessarily be exclusive; because if each State had
power to prescribe a DISTINCT RULE, there could not be a UNIFORM RULE.

A case which may perhaps be thought to resemble the latter, but which
is in fact widely different, affects the question immediately under
consideration. I mean the power of imposing taxes on all articles
other than exports and imports. This, I contend, is manifestly a
concurrent and coequal authority in the United States and in the
individual States. There is plainly no expression in the granting
clause which makes that power EXCLUSIVE in the Union. There is no
independent clause or sentence which prohibits the States from
exercising it. So far is this from being the case, that a plain and
conclusive argument to the contrary is to be deduced from the
restraint laid upon the States in relation to duties on imports and
exports. This restriction implies an admission that, if it were not
inserted, the States would possess the power it excludes; and it
implies a further admission, that as to all other taxes, the authority
of the States remains undiminished. In any other view it would be both
unnecessary and dangerous; it would be unnecessary, because if the
grant to the Union of the power of laying such duties implied the
exclusion of the States, or even their subordination in this
particular, there could be no need of such a restriction; it would be
dangerous, because the introduction of it leads directly to the
conclusion which has been mentioned, and which, if the reasoning of
the objectors be just, could not have been intended; I mean that the
States, in all cases to which the restriction did not apply, would
have a concurrent power of taxation with the Union. The restriction in
question amounts to what lawyers call a NEGATIVE PREGNANT that is, a
NEGATION of one thing, and an AFFIRMANCE of another; a negation of the
authority of the States to impose taxes on imports and exports, and an
affirmance of their authority to impose them on all other articles. It
would be mere sophistry to argue that it was meant to exclude them
ABSOLUTELY from the imposition of taxes of the former kind, and to
leave them at liberty to lay others SUBJECT TO THE CONTROL of the
national legislature. The restraining or prohibitory clause only says,
that they shall not, WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF CONGRESS, lay such duties;
and if we are to understand this in the sense last mentioned, the
Constitution would then be made to introduce a formal provision for
the sake of a very absurd conclusion; which is, that the States, WITH
THE CONSENT of the national legislature, might tax imports and
exports; and that they might tax every other article, UNLESS
CONTROLLED by the same body. If this was the intention, why not leave
it, in the first instance, to what is alleged to be the natural
operation of the original clause, conferring a general power of
taxation upon the Union? It is evident that this could not have been
the intention, and that it will not bear a construction of the kind.

As to a supposition of repugnancy between the power of taxation in the
States and in the Union, it cannot be supported in that sense which
would be requisite to work an exclusion of the States. It is, indeed,
possible that a tax might be laid on a particular article by a State
which might render it INEXPEDIENT that thus a further tax should be
laid on the same article by the Union; but it would not imply a
constitutional inability to impose a further tax. The quantity of the
imposition, the expediency or inexpediency of an increase on either
side, would be mutually questions of prudence; but there would be
involved no direct contradiction of power. The particular policy of
the national and of the State systems of finance might now and then
not exactly coincide, and might require reciprocal forbearances. It is
not, however a mere possibility of inconvenience in the exercise of
powers, but an immediate constitutional repugnancy that can by
implication alienate and extinguish a pre-existing right of
sovereignty.

The necessity of a concurrent jurisdiction in certain cases results
from the division of the sovereign power; and the rule that all
authorities, of which the States are not explicitly divested in favor
of the Union, remain with them in full vigor, is not a theoretical
consequence of that division, but is clearly admitted by the whole
tenor of the instrument which contains the articles of the proposed
Constitution. We there find that, notwithstanding the affirmative
grants of general authorities, there has been the most pointed care in
those cases where it was deemed improper that the like authorities
should reside in the States, to insert negative clauses prohibiting
the exercise of them by the States. The tenth section of the first
article consists altogether of such provisions. This circumstance is a
clear indication of the sense of the convention, and furnishes a rule
of interpretation out of the body of the act, which justifies the
position I have advanced and refutes every hypothesis to the contrary.
THE residue of the argument against the provisions of the Constitution
in respect to taxation is ingrafted upon the following clause. The
last clause of the eighth section of the first article of the plan
under consideration authorizes the national legislature "to make all
laws which shall be NECESSARY and PROPER for carrying into execution
THE POWERS by that Constitution vested in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer thereof"; and the second
clause of the sixth article declares, "that the Constitution and the
laws of the United States made IN PURSUANCE THEREOF, and the treaties
made by their authority shall be the SUPREME LAW of the land, any
thing in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding."  These two clauses have been the source of much
virulent invective and petulant declamation against the proposed
Constitution. They have been held up to the people in all the
exaggerated colors of misrepresentation as the pernicious engines by
which their local governments were to be destroyed and their liberties
exterminated; as the hideous monster whose devouring jaws would spare
neither sex nor age, nor high nor low, nor sacred nor profane; and
yet, strange as it may appear, after all this clamor, to those who may
not have happened to contemplate them in the same light, it may be
affirmed with perfect confidence that the constitutional operation of
the intended government would be precisely the same, if these clauses
were entirely obliterated, as if they were repeated in every
article. They are only declaratory of a truth which would have
resulted by necessary and unavoidable implication from the very act of
constituting a federal government, and vesting it with certain
specified powers. This is so clear a proposition, that moderation
itself can scarcely listen to the railings which have been so
copiously vented against this part of the plan, without emotions that
disturb its equanimity.

What is a power, but the ability or faculty of doing a thing? What is
the ability to do a thing, but the power of employing the MEANS
necessary to its execution? What is a LEGISLATIVE power, but a power
of making LAWS? What are the MEANS to execute a LEGISLATIVE power but
LAWS? What is the power of laying and collecting taxes, but a
LEGISLATIVE POWER, or a power of MAKING LAWS, to lay and collect
taxes? What are the propermeans of executing such a power, but
NECESSARY and PROPER laws?  This simple train of inquiry furnishes us
at once with a test by which to judge of the true nature of the clause
complained of. It conducts us to this palpable truth, that a power to
lay and collect taxes must be a power to pass all laws NECESSARY and
PROPER for the execution of that power; and what does the unfortunate
and culumniated provision in question do more than declare the same
truth, to wit, that the national legislature, to whom the power of
laying and collecting taxes had been previously given, might, in the
execution of that power, pass all laws NECESSARY and PROPER to carry
it into effect? I have applied these observations thus particularly to
the power of taxation, because it is the immediate subject under
consideration, and because it is the most important of the authorities
proposed to be conferred upon the Union. But the same process will
lead to the same result, in relation to all other powers declared in
the Constitution. And it is EXPRESSLY to execute these powers that the
sweeping clause, as it has been affectedly called, authorizes the
national legislature to pass all NECESSARY and PROPER laws. If there
is any thing exceptionable, it must be sought for in the specific
powers upon which this general declaration is predicated. The
declaration itself, though it may be chargeable with tautology or
redundancy, is at least perfectly harmless.

But SUSPICION may ask, Why then was it introduced? The answer is, that
it could only have been done for greater caution, and to guard against
all cavilling refinements in those who might hereafter feel a
disposition to curtail and evade the legitimatb authorities of the
Union. The Convention probably foresaw, what it has been a principal
aim of these papers to inculcate, that the danger which most threatens
our political welfare is that the State governments will finally sap
the foundations of the Union; and might therefore think it necessary,
in so cardinal a point, to leave nothing to construction. Whatever may
have been the inducement to it, the wisdom of the precaution is
evident from the cry which has been raised against it; as that very
cry betrays a disposition to question the great and essential truth
which it is manifestly the object of that provision to declare.

But it may be again asked, Who is to judge of the NECESSITY and
PROPRIETY of the laws to be passed for executing the powers of the
Union? I answer, first, that this question arises as well and as fully
upon the simple grant of those powers as upon the declaratory clause;
and I answer, in the second place, that the national government, like
every other, must judge, in the first instance, of the proper exercise
of its powers, and its constituents in the last. If the federal
government should overpass the just bounds of its authority and make a
tyrannical use of its powers, the people, whose creature it is, must
appeal to the standard they have formed, and take such measures to
redress the injury done to the Constitution as the exigency may
suggest and prudence justify. The propriety of a law, in a
constitutional light, must always be determined by the nature of the
powers upon which it is founded. Suppose, by some forced constructions
of its authority (which, indeed, cannot easily be imagined), the
Federal legislature should attempt to vary the law of descent in any
State, would it not be evident that, in making such an attempt, it had
exceeded its jurisdiction, and infringed upon that of the State?
Suppose, again, that upon the pretense of an interference with its
revenues, it should undertake to abrogate a landtax imposed by the
authority of a State; would it not be equally evident that this was an
invasion of that concurrent jurisdiction in respect to this species of
tax, which its Constitution plainly supposes to exist in the State
governments? If there ever should be a doubt on this head, the credit
of it will be entirely due to those reasoners who, in the imprudent
zeal of their animosity to the plan of the convention, have labored to
envelop it in a cloud calculated to obscure the plainest and simplest
truths.

But it is said that the laws of the Union are to be the SUPREME LAW of
the land. But what inference can be drawn from this, or what would
they amount to, if they were not to be supreme? It is evident they
would amount to nothing. A LAW, by the very meaning of the term,
includes supremacy. It is a rule which those to whom it is prescribed
are bound to observe. This results from every political
association. If individuals enter into a state of society, the laws of
that society must be the supreme regulator of their conduct. If a
number of political societies enter into a larger political society,
the laws which the latter may enact, pursuant to the powers intrusted
to it by its constitution, must necessarily be supreme over those
societies, and the individuals of whom they are composed. It would
otherwise be a mere treaty, dependent on the good faith of the
parties, and not a goverment, which is only another word for POLITICAL
POWER AND SUPREMACY. But it will not follow from this doctrine that
acts of the large society which are NOT PURSUANT to its constitutional
powers, but which are invasions of the residuary authorities of the
smaller societies, will become the supreme law of the land. These will
be merely acts of usurpation, and will deserve to be treated as
such. Hence we perceive that the clause which declares the supremacy
of the laws of the Union, like the one we have just before considered,
only declares a truth, which flows immediately and necessarily from
the institution of a federal government. It will not, I presume, have
escaped observation, that it EXPRESSLY confines this supremacy to laws
made PURSUANT TO THE CONSTITUTION; which I mention merely as an
instance of caution in the convention; since that limitation would
have been to be understood, though it had not been expressed.

Though a law, therefore, laying a tax for the use of the United States
would be supreme in its nature, and could not legally be opposed or
controlled, yet a law for abrogating or preventing the collection of a
tax laid by the authority of the State, (unless upon imports and
exports), would not be the supreme law of the land, but a usurpation
of power not granted by the Constitution. As far as an improper
accumulation of taxes on the same object might tend to render the
collection difficult or precarious, this would be a mutual
inconvenience, not arising from a superiority or defect of power on
either side, but from an injudicious exercise of power by one or the
other, in a manner equally disadvantageous to both. It is to be hoped
and presumed, however, that mutual interest would dictate a concert in
this respect which would avoid any material inconvenience. The
inference from the whole is, that the individual States would, under
the proposed Constitution, retain an independent and uncontrollable
authority to raise revenue to any extent of which they may stand in
need, by every kind of taxation, except duties on imports and
exports. It will be shown in the next paper that this CONCURRENT
JURISDICTION in the article of taxation was the only admissible
substitute for an entire subordination, in respect to this branch of
power, of the State authority to that of the Union.
I FLATTER myself it has been clearly shown in my last number that the
particular States, under the proposed Constitution, would have COEQUAL
authority with the Union in the article of revenue, except as to
duties on imports. As this leaves open to the States far the greatest
part of the resources of the community, there can be no color for the
assertion that they would not possess means as abundant as could be
desired for the supply of their own wants, independent of all external
control. That the field is sufficiently wide will more fully appear
when we come to advert to the inconsiderable share of the public
expenses for which it will fall to the lot of the State governments to
provide.

To argue upon abstract principles that this co-ordinate authority
cannot exist, is to set up supposition and theory against fact and
reality. However proper such reasonings might be to show that a thing
OUGHT NOT TO EXIST, they are wholly to be rejected when they are made
use of to prove that it does not exist contrary to the evidence of the
fact itself. It is well known that in the Roman republic the
legislative authority, in the last resort, resided for ages in two
different political bodies not as branches of the same legislature,
but as distinct and independent legislatures, in each of which an
opposite interest prevailed: in one the patrician; in the other, the
plebian. Many arguments might have been adduced to prove the unfitness
of two such seemingly contradictory authorities, each having power to
ANNUL or REPEAL the acts of the other. But a man would have been
regarded as frantic who should have attempted at Rome to disprove
their existence. It will be readily understood that I allude to the
COMITIA CENTURIATA and the COMITIA TRIBUTA. The former, in which the
people voted by centuries, was so arranged as to give a superiority to
the patrician interest; in the latter, in which numbers prevailed, the
plebian interest had an entire predominancy. And yet these two
legislatures coexisted for ages, and the Roman republic attained to
the utmost height of human greatness.

In the case particularly under consideration, there is no such
contradiction as appears in the example cited; there is no power on
either side to annul the acts of the other. And in practice there is
little reason to apprehend any inconvenience; because, in a short
course of time, the wants of the States will naturally reduce
themselves within A VERY NARROW COMPASS; and in the interim, the
United States will, in all probability, find it convenient to abstain
wholly from those objects to which the particular States would be
inclined to resort.

To form a more precise judgment of the true merits of this question,
it will be well to advert to the proportion between the objects that
will require a federal provision in respect to revenue, and those
which will require a State provision. We shall discover that the
former are altogether unlimited, and that the latter are circumscribed
within very moderate bounds. In pursuing this inquiry, we must bear in
mind that we are not to confine our view to the present period, but to
look forward to remote futurity. Constitutions of civil government are
not to be framed upon a calculation of existing exigencies, but upon a
combination of these with the probable exigencies of ages, according
to the natural and tried course of human affairs. Nothing, therefore,
can be more fallacious than to infer the extent of any power, proper
to be lodged in the national government, from an estimate of its
immediate necessities. There ought to be a CAPACITY to provide for
future contingencies as they may happen; and as these are illimitable
in their nature, it is impossible safely to limit that capacity. It is
true, perhaps, that a computation might be made with sufficient
accuracy to answer the purpose of the quantity of revenue requisite to
discharge the subsisting engagements of the Union, and to maintain
those establishments which, for some time to come, would suffice in
time of peace. But would it be wise, or would it not rather be the
extreme of folly, to stop at this point, and to leave the government
intrusted with the care of the national defense in a state of absolute
incapacity to provide for the protection of the community against
future invasions of the public peace, by foreign war or domestic
convulsions? If, on the contrary, we ought to exceed this point, where
can we stop, short of an indefinite power of providing for emergencies
as they may arise? Though it is easy to assert, in general terms, the
possibility of forming a rational judgment of a due provision against
probable dangers, yet we may safely challenge those who make the
assertion to bring forward their data, and may affirm that they would
be found as vague and uncertain as any that could be produced to
establish the probable duration of the world. Observations confined to
the mere prospects of internal attacks can deserve no weight; though
even these will admit of no satisfactory calculation: but if we mean
to be a commercial people, it must form a part of our policy to be
able one day to defend that commerce. The support of a navy and of
naval wars would involve contingencies that must baffle all the
efforts of political arithmetic.

Admitting that we ought to try the novel and absurd experiment in
politics of tying up the hands of government from offensive war
founded upon reasons of state, yet certainly we ought not to disable
it from guarding the community against the ambition or enmity of other
nations. A cloud has been for some time hanging over the European
world. If it should break forth into a storm, who can insure us that
in its progress a part of its fury would not be spent upon us? No
reasonable man would hastily pronounce that we are entirely out of its
reach. Or if the combustible materials that now seem to be collecting
should be dissipated without coming to maturity, or if a flame should
be kindled without extending to us, what security can we have that our
tranquillity will long remain undisturbed from some other cause or
from some other quarter? Let us recollect that peace or war will not
always be left to our option; that however moderate or unambitious we
may be, we cannot count upon the moderation, or hope to extinguish the
ambition of others. Who could have imagined at the conclusion of the
last war that France and Britain, wearied and exhausted as they both
were, would so soon have looked with so hostile an aspect upon each
other? To judge from the history of mankind, we shall be compelled to
conclude that the fiery and destructive passions of war reign in the
human breast with much more powerful sway than the mild and beneficent
sentiments of peace; and that to model our political systems upon
speculations of lasting tranquillity, is to calculate on the weaker
springs of the human character.

What are the chief sources of expense in every government? What has
occasioned that enormous accumulation of debts with which several of
the European nations are oppressed? The answers plainly is, wars and
rebellions; the support of those institutions which are necessary to
guard the body politic against these two most mortal diseases of
society. The expenses arising from those institutions which are
relative to the mere domestic police of a state, to the support of its
legislative, executive, and judicial departments, with their different
appendages, and to the encouragement of agriculture and manufactures
(which will comprehend almost all the objects of state expenditure),
are insignificant in comparison with those which relate to the
national defense.

In the kingdom of Great Britain, where all the ostentatious apparatus
of monarchy is to be provided for, not above a fifteenth part of the
annual income of the nation is appropriated to the class of expenses
last mentioned; the other fourteen fifteenths are absorbed in the
payment of the interest of debts contracted for carrying on the wars
in which that country has been engaged, and in the maintenance of
fleets and armies. If, on the one hand, it should be observed that the
expenses incurred in the prosecution of the ambitious enterprises and
vainglorious pursuits of a monarchy are not a proper standard by which
to judge of those which might be necessary in a republic, it ought, on
the other hand, to be remarked that there should be as great a
disproportion between the profusion and extravagance of a wealthy
kingdom in its domestic administration, and the frugality and economy
which in that particular become the modest simplicity of republican
government. If we balance a proper deduction from one side against
that which it is supposed ought to be made from the other, the
proportion may still be considered as holding good.

But let us advert to the large debt which we have ourselves contracted
in a single war, and let us only calculate on a common share of the
events which disturb the peace of nations, and we shall instantly
perceive, without the aid of any elaborate illustration, that there
must always be an immense disproportion between the objects of federal
and state expenditures. It is true that several of the States,
separately, are encumbered with considerable debts, which are an
excrescence of the late war. But this cannot happen again, if the
proposed system be adopted; and when these debts are discharged, the
only call for revenue of any consequence, which the State governments
will continue to experience, will be for the mere support of their
respective civil list; to which, if we add all contingencies, the
total amount in every State ought to fall considerably short of two
hundred thousand pounds.

In framing a government for posterity as well as ourselves, we ought,
in those provisions which are designed to be permanent, to calculate,
not on temporary, but on permanent causes of expense. If this
principle be a just one our attention would be directed to a provision
in favor of the State governments for an annual sum of about two
hundred thousand pounds; while the exigencies of the Union could be
susceptible of no limits, even in imagination. In this view of the
subject, by what logic can it be maintained that the local governments
ought to command, in perpetuity, an EXCLUSIVE source of revenue for
any sum beyond the extent of two hundred thousand pounds? To extend
its power further, in EXCLUSION of the authority of the Union, would
be to take the resources of the community out of those hands which
stood in need of them for the public welfare, in order to put them
into other hands which could have no just or proper occasion for them.

Suppose, then, the convention had been inclined to proceed upon the
principle of a repartition of the objects of revenue, between the
Union and its members, in PROPORTION to their comparative necessities;
what particular fund could have been selected for the use of the
States, that would not either have been too much or too little too
little for their present, too much for their future wants? As to the
line of separation between external and internal taxes, this would
leave to the States, at a rough computation, the command of two thirds
of the resources of the community to defray from a tenth to a
twentieth part of its expenses; and to the Union, one third of the
resources of the community, to defray from nine tenths to nineteen
twentieths of its expenses. If we desert this boundary and content
ourselves with leaving to the States an exclusive power of taxing
houses and lands, there would still be a great disproportion between
the MEANS and the END; the possession of one third of the resources of
the community to supply, at most, one tenth of its wants. If any fund
could have been selected and appropriated, equal to and not greater
than the object, it would have been inadequate to the discharge of the
existing debts of the particular States, and would have left them
dependent on the Union for a provision for this purpose.

The preceding train of observation will justify the position which has
been elsewhere laid down, that "A CONCURRENT JURISDICTION in the
article of taxation was the only admissible substitute for an entire
subordination, in respect to this branch of power, of State authority
to that of the Union." Any separation of the objects of revenue that
could have been fallen upon, would have amounted to a sacrifice of the
great INTERESTS of the Union to the POWER of the individual
States. The convention thought the concurrent jurisdiction preferable
to that subordination; and it is evident that it has at least the
merit of reconciling an indefinite constitutional power of taxation in
the Federal government with an adequate and independent power in the
States to provide for their own necessities. There remain a few other
lights, in which this important subject of taxation will claim a
further consideration.
BEFORE we proceed to examine any other objections to an indefinite
power of taxation in the Union, I shall make one general remark; which
is, that if the jurisdiction of the national government, in the
article of revenue, should be restricted to particular objects, it
would naturally occasion an undue proportion of the public burdens to
fall upon those objects. Two evils would spring from this source: the
oppression of particular branches of industry; and an unequal
distribution of the taxes, as well among the several States as among
the citizens of the same State.

Suppose, as has been contended for, the federal power of taxation were
to be confined to duties on imports, it is evident that the
government, for want of being able to command other resources, would
frequently be tempted to extend these duties to an injurious
excess. There are persons who imagine that they can never be carried
to too great a length; since the higher they are, the more it is
alleged they will tend to discourage an extravagant consumption, to
produce a favorable balance of trade, and to promote domestic
manufactures. But all extremes are pernicious in various
ways. Exorbitant duties on imported articles would beget a general
spirit of smuggling; which is always prejudicial to the fair trader,
and eventually to the revenue itself: they tend to render other
classes of the community tributary, in an improper degree, to the
manufacturing classes, to whom they give a premature monopoly of the
markets; they sometimes force industry out of its more natural
channels into others in which it flows with less advantage; and in the
last place, they oppress the merchant, who is often obliged to pay
them himself without any retribution from the consumer. When the
demand is equal to the quantity of goods at market, the consumer
generally pays the duty; but when the markets happen to be
overstocked, a great proportion falls upon the merchant, and sometimes
not only exhausts his profits, but breaks in upon his capital. I am
apt to think that a division of the duty, between the seller and the
buyer, more often happens than is commonly imagined. It is not always
possible to raise the price of a commodity in exact proportion to
every additional imposition laid upon it. The merchant, especially in
a country of small commercial capital, is often under a necessity of
keeping prices down in order to a more expeditious sale.

The maxim that the consumer is the payer, is so much oftener true than
the reverse of the proposition, that it is far more equitable that the
duties on imports should go into a common stock, than that they should
redound to the exclusive benefit of the importing States. But it is
not so generally true as to render it equitable, that those duties
should form the only national fund. When they are paid by the merchant
they operate as an additional tax upon the importing State, whose
citizens pay their proportion of them in the character of
consumers. In this view they are productive of inequality among the
States; which inequality would be increased with the increased extent
of the duties. The confinement of the national revenues to this
species of imposts would be attended with inequality, from a different
cause, between the manufacturing and the non-manufacturing States. The
States which can go farthest towards the supply of their own wants, by
their own manufactures, will not, according to their numbers or
wealth, consume so great a proportion of imported articles as those
States which are not in the same favorable situation. They would not,
therefore, in this mode alone contribute to the public treasury in a
ratio to their abilities. To make them do this it is necessary that
recourse be had to excises, the proper objects of which are particular
kinds of manufactures. New York is more deeply interested in these
considerations than such of her citizens as contend for limiting the
power of the Union to external taxation may be aware of. New York is
an importing State, and is not likely speedily to be, to any great
extent, a manufacturing State. She would, of course, suffer in a
double light from restraining the jurisdiction of the Union to
commercial imposts.

So far as these observations tend to inculcate a danger of the import
duties being extended to an injurious extreme it may be observed,
conformably to a remark made in another part of these papers, that the
interest of the revenue itself would be a sufficient guard against
such an extreme. I readily admit that this would be the case, as long
as other resources were open; but if the avenues to them were closed,
HOPE, stimulated by necessity, would beget experiments, fortified by
rigorous precautions and additional penalties, which, for a time,
would have the intended effect, till there had been leisure to
contrive expedients to elude these new precautions. The first success
would be apt to inspire false opinions, which it might require a long
course of subsequent experience to correct. Necessity, especially in
politics, often occasions false hopes, false reasonings, and a system
of measures correspondingly erroneous. But even if this supposed
excess should not be a consequence of the limitation of the federal
power of taxation, the inequalities spoken of would still ensue,
though not in the same degree, from the other causes that have been
noticed. Let us now return to the examination of objections.

One which, if we may judge from the frequency of its repetition, seems
most to be relied on, is, that the House of Representatives is not
sufficiently numerous for the reception of all the different classes
of citizens, in order to combine the interests and feelings of every
part of the community, and to produce a due sympathy between the
representative body and its constituents. This argument presents
itself under a very specious and seducing form; and is well calculated
to lay hold of the prejudices of those to whom it is addressed. But
when we come to dissect it with attention, it will appear to be made
up of nothing but fair-sounding words. The object it seems to aim at
is, in the first place, impracticable, and in the sense in which it is
contended for, is unnecessary. I reserve for another place the
discussion of the question which relates to the sufficiency of the
representative body in respect to numbers, and shall content myself
with examining here the particular use which has been made of a
contrary supposition, in reference to the immediate subject of our
inquiries.

The idea of an actual representation of all classes of the people, by
persons of each class, is altogether visionary. Unless it were
expressly provided in the Constitution, that each different occupation
should send one or more members, the thing would never take place in
practice. Mechanics and manufacturers will always be inclined, with
few exceptions, to give their votes to merchants, in preference to
persons of their own professions or trades. Those discerning citizens
are well aware that the mechanic and manufacturing arts furnish the
materials of mercantile enterprise and industry. Many of them, indeed,
are immediately connected with the operations of commerce. They know
that the merchant is their natural patron and friend; and they are
aware, that however great the confidence they may justly feel in their
own good sense, their interests can be more effectually promoted by
the merchant than by themselves. They are sensible that their habits
in life have not been such as to give them those acquired endowments,
without which, in a deliberative assembly, the greatest natural
abilities are for the most part useless; and that the influence and
weight, and superior acquirements of the merchants render them more
equal to a contest with any spirit which might happen to infuse itself
into the public councils, unfriendly to the manufacturing and trading
interests. These considerations, and many others that might be
mentioned prove, and experience confirms it, that artisans and
manufacturers will commonly be disposed to bestow their votes upon
merchants and those whom they recommend. We must therefore consider
merchants as the natural representatives of all these classes of the
community.

With regard to the learned professions, little need be observed; they
truly form no distinct interest in society, and according to their
situation and talents, will be indiscriminately the objects of the
confidence and choice of each other, and of other parts of the
community.

Nothing remains but the landed interest; and this, in a political
view, and particularly in relation to taxes, I take to be perfectly
united, from the wealthiest landlord down to the poorest tenant. No
tax can be laid on land which will not affect the proprietor of
millions of acres as well as the proprietor of a single acre. Every
landholder will therefore have a common interest to keep the taxes on
land as low as possible; and common interest may always be reckoned
upon as the surest bond of sympathy. But if we even could suppose a
distinction of interest between the opulent landholder and the
middling farmer, what reason is there to conclude, that the first
would stand a better chance of being deputed to the national
legislature than the last? If we take fact as our guide, and look into
our own senate and assembly, we shall find that moderate proprietors
of land prevail in both; nor is this less the case in the senate,
which consists of a smaller number, than in the assembly, which is
composed of a greater number. Where the qualifications of the electors
are the same, whether they have to choose a small or a large number,
their votes will fall upon those in whom they have most confidence;
whether these happen to be men of large fortunes, or of moderate
property, or of no property at all.

It is said to be necessary, that all classes of citizens should have
some of their own number in the representative body, in order that
their feelings and interests may be the better understood and attended
to. But we have seen that this will never happen under any arrangement
that leaves the votes of the people free. Where this is the case, the
representative body, with too few exceptions to have any influence on
the spirit of the government, will be composed of landholders,
merchants, and men of the learned professions. But where is the danger
that the interests and feelings of the different classes of citizens
will not be understood or attended to by these three descriptions of
men? Will not the landholder know and feel whatever will promote or
insure the interest of landed property? And will he not, from his own
interest in that species of property, be sufficiently prone to resist
every attempt to prejudice or encumber it? Will not the merchant
understand and be disposed to cultivate, as far as may be proper, the
interests of the mechanic and manufacturing arts, to which his
commerce is so nearly allied? Will not the man of the learned
profession, who will feel a neutrality to the rivalships between the
different branches of industry, be likely to prove an impartial
arbiter between them, ready to promote either, so far as it shall
appear to him conducive to the general interests of the society?  If
we take into the account the momentary humors or dispositions which
may happen to prevail in particular parts of the society, and to which
a wise administration will never be inattentive, is the man whose
situation leads to extensive inquiry and information less likely to be
a competent judge of their nature, extent, and foundation than one
whose observation does not travel beyond the circle of his neighbors
and acquaintances? Is it not natural that a man who is a candidate for
the favor of the people, and who is dependent on the suffrages of his
fellow-citizens for the continuance of his public honors, should take
care to inform himself of their dispositions and inclinations, and
should be willing to allow them their proper degree of influence upon
his conduct? This dependence, and the necessity of being bound
himself, and his posterity, by the laws to which he gives his assent,
are the true, and they are the strong chords of sympathy between the
representative and the constituent.

There is no part of the administration of government that requires
extensive information and a thorough knowledge of the principles of
political economy, so much as the business of taxation. The man who
understands those principles best will be least likely to resort to
oppressive expedients, or sacrifice any particular class of citizens
to the procurement of revenue. It might be demonstrated that the most
productive system of finance will always be the least
burdensome. There can be no doubt that in order to a judicious
exercise of the power of taxation, it is necessary that the person in
whose hands it should be acquainted with the general genius, habits,
and modes of thinking of the people at large, and with the resources
of the country. And this is all that can be reasonably meant by a
knowledge of the interests and feelings of the people. In any other
sense the proposition has either no meaning, or an absurd one. And in
that sense let every considerate citizen judge for himself where the
requisite qualification is most likely to be found.
WE HAVE seen that the result of the observations, to which the
foregoing number has been principally devoted, is, that from the
natural operation of the different interests and views of the various
classes of the community, whether the representation of the people be
more or less numerous, it will consist almost entirely of proprietors
of land, of merchants, and of members of the learned professions, who
will truly represent all those different interests and views. If it
should be objected that we have seen other descriptions of men in the
local legislatures, I answer that it is admitted there are exceptions
to the rule, but not in sufficient number to influence the general
complexion or character of the government. There are strong minds in
every walk of life that will rise superior to the disadvantages of
situation, and will command the tribute due to their merit, not only
from the classes to which they particularly belong, but from the
society in general. The door ought to be equally open to all; and I
trust, for the credit of human nature, that we shall see examples of
such vigorous plants flourishing in the soil of federal as well as of
State legislation; but occasional instances of this sort will not
render the reasoning founded upon the general course of things, less
conclusive.

The subject might be placed in several other lights that would all
lead to the same result; and in particular it might be asked, What
greater affinity or relation of interest can be conceived between the
carpenter and blacksmith, and the linen manufacturer or stocking
weaver, than between the merchant and either of them? It is notorious
that there are often as great rivalships between different branches of
the mechanic or manufacturing arts as there are between any of the
departments of labor and industry; so that, unless the representative
body were to be far more numerous than would be consistent with any
idea of regularity or wisdom in its deliberations, it is impossible
that what seems to be the spirit of the objection we have been
considering should ever be realized in practice. But I forbear to
dwell any longer on a matter which has hitherto worn too loose a garb
to admit even of an accurate inspection of its real shape or tendency.

There is another objection of a somewhat more precise nature that
claims our attention. It has been asserted that a power of internal
taxation in the national legislature could never be exercised with
advantage, as well from the want of a sufficient knowledge of local
circumstances, as from an interference between the revenue laws of the
Union and of the particular States. The supposition of a want of
proper knowledge seems to be entirely destitute of foundation. If any
question is depending in a State legislature respecting one of the
counties, which demands a knowledge of local details, how is it
acquired? No doubt from the information of the members of the
county. Cannot the like knowledge be obtained in the national
legislature from the representatives of each State? And is it not to
be presumed that the men who will generally be sent there will be
possessed of the necessary degree of intelligence to be able to
communicate that information? Is the knowledge of local circumstances,
as applied to taxation, a minute topographical acquaintance with all
the mountains, rivers, streams, highways, and bypaths in each State;
or is it a general acquaintance with its situation and resources, with
the state of its agriculture, commerce, manufactures, with the nature
of its products and consumptions, with the different degrees and kinds
of its wealth, property, and industry?  Nations in general, even under
governments of the more popular kind, usually commit the
administration of their finances to single men or to boards composed
of a few individuals, who digest and prepare, in the first instance,
the plans of taxation, which are afterwards passed into laws by the
authority of the sovereign or legislature.

Inquisitive and enlightened statesmen are deemed everywhere best
qualified to make a judicious selection of the objects proper for
revenue; which is a clear indication, as far as the sense of mankind
can have weight in the question, of the species of knowledge of local
circumstances requisite to the purposes of taxation.

The taxes intended to be comprised under the general denomination of
internal taxes may be subdivided into those of the DIRECT and those of
the INDIRECT kind. Though the objection be made to both, yet the
reasoning upon it seems to be confined to the former branch. And
indeed, as to the latter, by which must be understood duties and
excises on articles of consumption, one is at a loss to conceive what
can be the nature of the difficulties apprehended. The knowledge
relating to them must evidently be of a kind that will either be
suggested by the nature of the article itself, or can easily be
procured from any well-informed man, especially of the mercantile
class. The circumstances that may distinguish its situation in one
State from its situation in another must be few, simple, and easy to
be comprehended. The principal thing to be attended to, would be to
avoid those articles which had been previously appropriated to the use
of a particular State; and there could be no difficulty in
ascertaining the revenue system of each. This could always be known
from the respective codes of laws, as well as from the information of
the members from the several States.

The objection, when applied to real property or to houses and lands,
appears to have, at first sight, more foundation, but even in this
view it will not bear a close examination. Land taxes are co monly
laid in one of two modes, either by ACTUAL valuations, permanent or
periodical, or by OCCASIONAL assessments, at the discretion, or
according to the best judgment, of certain officers whose duty it is
to make them. In either case, the EXECUTION of the business, which
alone requires the knowledge of local details, must be devolved upon
discreet persons in the character of commissioners or assessors,
elected by the people or appointed by the government for the
purpose. All that the law can do must be to name the persons or to
prescribe the manner of their election or appointment, to fix their
numbers and qualifications and to draw the general outlines of their
powers and duties. And what is there in all this that cannot as well
be performed by the national legislature as by a State legislature?
The attention of either can only reach to general principles; local
details, as already observed, must be referred to those who are to
execute the plan.

But there is a simple point of view in which this matter may be placed
that must be altogether satisfactory. The national legislature can
make use of the SYSTEM OF EACH STATE WITHIN THAT STATE. The method of
laying and collecting this species of taxes in each State can, in all
its parts, be adopted and employed by the federal government.

Let it be recollected that the proportion of these taxes is not to be
left to the discretion of the national legislature, but is to be
determined by the numbers of each State, as described in the second
section of the first article. An actual census or enumeration of the
people must furnish the rule, a circumstance which effectually shuts
the door to partiality or oppression. The abuse of this power of
taxation seems to have been provided against with guarded
circumspection. In addition to the precaution just mentioned, there is
a provision that "all duties, imposts, and excises shall be UNIFORM
throughout the United States.''  It has been very properly observed by
different speakers and writers on the side of the Constitution, that
if the exercise of the power of internal taxation by the Union should
be discovered on experiment to be really inconvenient, the federal
government may then forbear the use of it, and have recourse to
requisitions in its stead. By way of answer to this, it has been
triumphantly asked, Why not in the first instance omit that ambiguous
power, and rely upon the latter resource? Two solid answers may be
given. The first is, that the exercise of that power, if convenient,
will be preferable, because it will be more effectual; and it is
impossible to prove in theory, or otherwise than by the experiment,
that it cannot be advantageously exercised. The contrary, indeed,
appears most probable. The second answer is, that the existence of
such a power in the Constitution will have a strong influence in
giving efficacy to requisitions. When the States know that the Union
can apply itself without their agency, it will be a powerful motive
for exertion on their part.

As to the interference of the revenue laws of the Union, and of its
members, we have already seen that there can be no clashing or
repugnancy of authority. The laws cannot, therefore, in a legal sense,
interfere with each other; and it is far from impossible to avoid an
interference even in the policy of their different systems. An
effectual expedient for this purpose will be, mutually, to abstain
from those objects which either side may have first had recourse
to. As neither can CONTROL the other, each will have an obvious and
sensible interest in this reciprocal forbearance. And where there is
an IMMEDIATE common interest, we may safely count upon its
operation. When the particular debts of the States are done away, and
their expenses come to be limited within their natural compass, the
possibility almost of interference will vanish. A small land tax will
answer the purpose of the States, and will be their most simple and
most fit resource.

Many spectres have been raised out of this power of internal taxation,
to excite the apprehensions of the people: double sets of revenue
officers, a duplication of their burdens by double taxations, and the
frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-taxes, have been played
off with all the ingenious dexterity of political legerdemain.

As to the first point, there are two cases in which there can be no
room for double sets of officers: one, where the right of imposing the
tax is exclusively vested in the Union, which applies to the duties on
imports; the other, where the object has not fallen under any State
regulation or provision, which may be applicable to a variety of
objects. In other cases, the probability is that the United States
will either wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for local
purposes, or will make use of the State officers and State regulations
for collecting the additional imposition. This will best answer the
views of revenue, because it will save expense in the collehction, and
will best avoid any occasion of disgust to the State governments and
to the people. At all events, here is a practicable expedient for
avoiding such an inconvenience; and nothing more can be required than
to show that evils predicted to not necessarily result from the plan.

As to any argument derived from a supposed system of influence, it is
a sufficient answer to say that it ought not to be presumed; but the
supposition is susceptible of a more precise answer. If such a spirit
should infest the councils of the Union, the most certain road to the
accomplishment of its aim would be to employ the State officers as
much as possible, and to attach them to the Union by an accumulation
of their emoluments. This would serve to turn the tide of State
influence into the channels of the national government, instead of
making federal influence flow in an opposite and adverse current. But
all suppositions of this kind are invidious, and ought to be banished
from the consideration of the great question before the people. They
can answer no other end than to cast a mist over the truth.

As to the suggestion of double taxation, the answer is plain. The
wants of the Union are to be supplied in one way or another; if to be
done by the authority of the federal government, it will not be to be
done by that of the State government. The quantity of taxes to be paid
by the community must be the same in either case; with this advantage,
if the provision is to be made by the Union that the capital resource
of commercial imposts, which is the most convenient branch of revenue,
can be prudently improved to a much greater extent under federal than
under State regulation, and of course will render it less necessary to
recur to more inconvenient methods; and with this further advantage,
that as far as there may be any real difficulty in the exercise of the
power of internal taxation, it will impose a disposition to greater
care in the choice and arrangement of the means; and must naturally
tend to make it a fixed point of policy in the national administration
to go as far as may be practicable in making the luxury of the rich
tributary to the public treasury, in order to diminish the necessity
of those impositions which might create dissatisfaction in the poorer
and most numerous classes of the society. Happy it is when the
interest which the government has in the preservation of its own
power, coincides with a proper distribution of the public burdens, and
tends to guard the least wealthy part of the community from
oppression!  As to poll taxes, I, without scruple, confess my
disapprobation of them; and though they have prevailed from an early
period in those States [1] which have uniformly been the most
tenacious of their rights, I should lament to see them introduced into
practice under the national government. But does it follow because
there is a power to lay them that they will actually be laid? Every
State in the Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and yet in
several of them they are unknown in practice. Are the State
governments to be stigmatized as tyrannies, because they possess this
power? If they are not, with what propriety can the like power justify
such a charge against the national government, or even be urged as an
obstacle to its adoption? As little friendly as I am to the species of
imposition, I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of
having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal government. There
are certain emergencies of nations, in which expedients, that in the
ordinary state of things ought to be forborne, become essential to the
public weal. And the government, from the possibility of such
emergencies, ought ever to have the option of making use of them. The
real scarcity of objects in this country, which may be considered as
productive sources of revenue, is a reason peculiar to itself, for not
abridging the discretion of the national councils in this
respect. There may exist certain critical and tempestuous conjunctures
of the State, in which a poll tax may become an inestimable
resource. And as I know nothing to exempt this portion of the globe
from the common calamities that have befallen other parts of it, I
acknowledge my aversion to every project that is calculated to disarm
the government of a single weapon, which in any possible contingency
might be usefully employed for the general defense and security.

I have now gone through the examination of such of the powers proposed
to be vested in the United States, which may be considered as having
an immediate relation to the energy of the government; and have
endeavored to answer the principal objections which have been made to
them. I have passed over in silence those minor authorities, which are
either too inconsiderable to have been thought worthy of the
hostilities of the opponents of the Constitution, or of too manifest
propriety to admit of controversy. The mass of judiciary power,
however, might have claimed an investigation under this head, had it
not been for the consideration that its organization and its extent
may be more advantageously considered in connection. This has
determined me to refer it to the branch of our inquiries upon which we
shall next enter.
THE natural order of the subject leads us to consider, in this place,
that provision of the Constitution which authorizes the national
legislature to regulate, in the last resort, the election of its own
members. It is in these words: "The TIMES, PLACES, and MANNER of
holding elections for senators and representatives shall be prescribed
in each State by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may, at any
time, by law, make or alter SUCH REGULATIONS, except as to the PLACES
of choosing senators." [1] This provision has not only been declaimed
against by those who condemn the Constitution in the gross, but it has
been censured by those who have objected with less latitude and
greater moderation; and, in one instance it has been thought
exceptionable by a gentleman who has declared himself the advocate of
every other part of the system. I am greatly mistaken,
notwithstanding, if there be any article in the whole plan more
completely defensible than this. Its propriety rests upon the evidence
of this plain proposition, that EVERY GOVERNMENT OUGHT TO CONTAIN IN
ITSELF THE MEANS OF ITS OWN PRESERVATION. Every just reasoner will, at
first sight, approve an adherence to this rule, in the work of the
convention; and will disapprove every deviation from it which may not
appear to have been dictated by the necessity of incorporating into
the work some particular ingredient, with which a rigid conformity to
the rule was incompatible. Even in this case, though he may acquiesce
in the necessity, yet he will not cease to regard and to regret a
departure from so fundamental a principle, as a portion of
imperfection in the system which may prove the seed of future
weakness, and perhaps anarchy. It will not be alleged, that an
election law could have been framed and inserted in the Constitution,
which would have been always applicable to every probable change in
the situation of the country; and it will therefore not be denied,
that a discretionary power over elections ought to exist somewhere. It
will, I presume, be as readily conceded, that there were only three
ways in which this power could have been reasonably modified and
disposed: that it must either have been lodged wholly in the national
legislature, or wholly in the State legislatures, or primarily in the
latter and ultimately in the former. The last mode has, with reason,
been preferred by the convention. They have submitted the regulation
of elections for the federal government, in the first instance, to the
local administrations; which, in ordinary cases, and when no improper
views prevail, may be both more convenient and more satisfactory; but
they have reserved to the national authority a right to interpose,
whenever extraordinary circumstances might render that interposition
necessary to its safety. Nothing can be more evident, than that an
exclusive power of regulating elections for the national government,
in the hands of the State legislatures, would leave the existence of
the Union entirely at their mercy. They could at any moment annihilate
it, by neglecting to provide for the choice of persons to administer
its affairs. It is to little purpose to say, that a neglect or
omission of this kind would not be likely to take place. The
constitutional possibility of the thing, without an equivalent for the
risk, is an unanswerable objection. Nor has any satisfactory reason
been yet assigned for incurring that risk. The extravagant surmises of
a distempered jealousy can never be dignified with that character. If
we are in a humor to presume abuses of power, it is as fair to presume
them on the part of the State governments as on the part of the
general government. And as it is more consonant to the rules of a just
theory, to trust the Union with the care of its own existence, than to
transfer that care to any other hands, if abuses of power are to be
hazarded on the one side or on the other, it is more rational to
hazard them where the power would naturally be placed, than where it
would unnaturally be placed. Suppose an article had been introduced
into the Constitution, empowering the United States to regulate the
elections for the particular States, would any man have hesitated to
condemn it, both as an unwarrantable transposition of power, and as a
premeditated engine for the destruction of the State governments? The
violation of principle, in this case, would have required no comment;
and, to an unbiased observer, it will not be less apparent in the
project of subjecting the existence of the national government, in a
similar respect, to the pleasure of the State governments. An
impartial view of the matter cannot fail to result in a conviction,
that each, as far as possible, ought to depend on itself for its own
preservation. As an objection to this position, it may be remarked
that the constitution of the national Senate would involve, in its
full extent, the danger which it is suggested might flow from an
exclusive power in the State legislatures to regulate the federal
elections. It may be alleged, that by declining the appointment of
Senators, they might at any time give a fatal blow to the Union; and
from this it may be inferred, that as its existence would be thus
rendered dependent upon them in so essential a point, there can be no
objection to intrusting them with it in the particular case under
consideration. The interest of each State, it may be added, to
maintain its representation in the national councils, would be a
complete security against an abuse of the trust. This argument, though
specious, will not, upon examination, be found solid. It is certainly
true that the State legislatures, by forbearing the appointment of
senators, may destroy the national government. But it will not follow
that, because they have a power to do this in one instance, they ought
to have it in every other. There are cases in which the pernicious
tendency of such a power may be far more decisive, without any motive
equally cogent with that which must have regulated the conduct of the
convention in respect to the formation of the Senate, to recommend
their admission into the system. So far as that construction may
expose the Union to the possibility of injury from the State
legislatures, it is an evil; but it is an evil which could not have
been avoided without excluding the States, in their political
capacities, wholly from a place in the organization of the national
government. If this had been done, it would doubtless have been
interpreted into an entire dereliction of the federal principle; and
would certainly have deprived the State governments of that absolute
safeguard which they will enjoy under this provision. But however wise
it may have been to have submitted in this instance to an
inconvenience, for the attainment of a necessary advantage or a
greater good, no inference can be drawn from thence to favor an
accumulation of the evil, where no necessity urges, nor any greater
good invites. It may be easily discerned also that the national
government would run a much greater risk from a power in the State
legislatures over the elections of its House of Representatives, than
from their power of appointing the members of its Senate. The senators
are to be chosen for the period of six years; there is to be a
rotation, by which the seats of a third part of them are to be vacated
and replenished every two years; and no State is to be entitled to
more than two senators; a quorum of the body is to consist of sixteen
members. The joint result of these circumstances would be, that a
temporary combination of a few States to intermit the appointment of
senators, could neither annul the existence nor impair the activity of
the body; and it is not from a general and permanent combination of
the States that we can have any thing to fear. The first might proceed
from sinister designs in the leading members of a few of the State
legislatures; the last would suppose a fixed and rooted disaffection
in the great body of the people, which will either never exist at all,
or will, in all probability, proceed from an experience of the
inaptitude of the general government to the advancement of their
happiness in which event no good citizen could desire its
continuance. But with regard to the federal House of Representatives,
there is intended to be a general election of members once in two
years. If the State legislatures were to be invested with an exclusive
power of regulating these elections, every period of making them would
be a delicate crisis in the national situation, which might issue in a
dissolution of the Union, if the leaders of a few of the most
important States should have entered into a previous conspiracy to
prevent an election. I shall not deny, that there is a degree of
weight in the observation, that the interests of each State, to be
represented in the federal councils, will be a security against the
abuse of a power over its elections in the hands of the State
legislatures. But the security will not be considered as complete, by
those who attend to the force of an obvious distinction between the
interest of the people in the public felicity, and the interest of
their local rulers in the power and consequence of their offices. The
people of America may be warmly attached to the government of the
Union, at times when the particular rulers of particular States,
stimulated by the natural rivalship of power, and by the hopes of
personal aggrandizement, and supported by a strong faction in each of
those States, may be in a very opposite temper. This diversity of
sentiment between a majority of the people, and the individuals who
have the greatest credit in their councils, is exemplified in some of
the States at the present moment, on the present question. The scheme
of separate confederacies, which will always multiply the chances of
ambition, will be a never failing bait to all such influential
characters in the State administrations as are capable of preferring
their own emolument and advancement to the public weal. With so
effectual a weapon in their hands as the exclusive power of regulating
elections for the national government, a combination of a few such
men, in a few of the most considerable States, where the temptation
will always be the strongest, might accomplish the destruction of the
Union, by seizing the opportunity of some casual dissatisfaction among
the people (and which perhaps they may themselves have excited), to
discontinue the choice of members for the federal House of
Representatives. It ought never to be forgotten, that a firm union of
this country, under an efficient government, will probably be an
increasing object of jealousy to more than one nation of Europe; and
that enterprises to subvert it will sometimes originate in the
intrigues of foreign powers, and will seldom fail to be patronized and
abetted by some of them. Its preservation, therefore ought in no case
that can be avoided, to be committed to the guardianship of any but
those whose situation will uniformly beget an immediate interest in
the faithful and vigilant performance of the trust.
WE HAVE seen, that an uncontrollable power over the elections to the
federal government could not, without hazard, be committed to the
State legislatures. Let us now see, what would be the danger on the
other side; that is, from confiding the ultimate right of regulating
its own elections to the Union itself. It is not pretended, that this
right would ever be used for the exclusion of any State from its share
in the representation. The interest of all would, in this respect at
least, be the security of all. But it is alleged, that it might be
employed in such a manner as to promote the election of some favorite
class of men in exclusion of others, by confining the places of
election to particular districts, and rendering it impracticable to
the citizens at large to partake in the choice. Of all chimerical
suppositions, this seems to be the most chimerical. On the one hand,
no rational calculation of probabilities would lead us to imagine that
the disposition which a conduct so violent and extraordinary would
imply, could ever find its way into the national councils; and on the
other, it may be concluded with certainty, that if so improper a
spirit should ever gain admittance into them, it would display itself
in a form altogether different and far more decisive.

The improbability of the attempt may be satisfactorily inferred from
this single reflection, that it could never be made without causing an
immediate revolt of the great body of the people, headed and directed
by the State governments. It is not difficult to conceive that this
characteristic right of freedom may, in certain turbulent and factious
seasons, be violated, in respect to a particular class of citizens, by
a victorious and overbearing majority; but that so fundamental a
privilege, in a country so situated and enlightened, should be invaded
to the prejudice of the great mass of the people, by the deliberate
policy of the government, without occasioning a popular revolution, is
altogether inconceivable and incredible.

In addition to this general reflection, there are considerations of a
more precise nature, which forbid all apprehension on the subject. The
dissimilarity in the ingredients which will compose the national
government, and in still more in the manner in which they will be
brought into action in its various branches, must form a powerful
obstacle to a concert of views in any partial scheme of
elections. There is sufficient diversity in the state of property, in
the genius, manners, and habits of the people of the different parts
of the Union, to occasion a material diversity of disposition in their
representatives towards the different ranks and conditions in
society. And though an intimate intercourse under the same government
will promote a gradual assimilation in some of these respects, yet
there are causes, as well physical as moral, which may, in a greater
or less degree, permanently nourish different propensities and
inclinations in this respect. But the circumstance which will be
likely to have the greatest influence in the matter, will be the
dissimilar modes of constituting the several component parts of the
government. The House of Representatives being to be elected
immediately by the people, the Senate by the State legislatures, the
President by electors chosen for that purpose by the people, there
would be little probability of a common interest to cement these
different branches in a predilection for any particular class of
electors.

As to the Senate, it is impossible that any regulation of "time and
manner," which is all that is proposed to be submitted to the national
government in respect to that body, can affect the spirit which will
direct the choice of its members. The collective sense of the State
legislatures can never be influenced by extraneous circumstances of
that sort; a consideration which alone ought to satisfy us that the
discrimination apprehended would never be attempted. For what
inducement could the Senate have to concur in a preference in which
itself would not be included? Or to what purpose would it be
established, in reference to one branch of the legislature, if it
could not be extended to the other? The composition of the one would
in this case counteract that of the other. And we can never suppose
that it would embrace the appointments to the Senate, unless we can at
the same time suppose the voluntary co-operation of the State
legislatures. If we make the latter supposition, it then becomes
immaterial where the power in question is placed whether in their
hands or in those of the Union.

But what is to be the object of this capricious partiality in the
national councils? Is it to be exercised in a discrimination between
the different departments of industry, or between the different kinds
of property, or between the different degrees of property? Will it
lean in favor of the landed interest, or the moneyed interest, or the
mercantile interest, or the manufacturing interest? Or, to speak in
the fashionable language of the adversaries to the Constitution, will
it court the elevation of "the wealthy and the well-born," to the
exclusion and debasement of all the rest of the society?  If this
partiality is to be exerted in favor of those who are concerned in any
particular description of industry or property, I presume it will
readily be admitted, that the competition for it will lie between
landed men and merchants. And I scruple not to affirm, that it is
infinitely less likely that either of them should gain an ascendant in
the national councils, than that the one or the other of them should
predominate in all the local councils. The inference will be, that a
conduct tending to give an undue preference to either is much less to
be dreaded from the former than from the latter.

The several States are in various degrees addicted to agriculture and
commerce. In most, if not all of them, agriculture is predominant. In
a few of them, however, commerce nearly divides its empire, and in
most of them has a considerable share of influence. In proportion as
either prevails, it will be conveyed into the national representation;
and for the very reason, that this will be an emanation from a greater
variety of interests, and in much more various proportions, than are
to be found in any single State, it will be much less apt to espouse
either of them with a decided partiality, than the representation of
any single State.

In a country consisting chiefly of the cultivators of land, where the
rules of an equal representation obtain, the landed interest must,
upon the whole, preponderate in the government. As long as this
interest prevails in most of the State legislatures, so long it must
maintain a correspondent superiority in the national Senate, which
will generally be a faithful copy of the majorities of those
assemblies. It cannot therefore be presumed, that a sacrifice of the
landed to the mercantile class will ever be a favorite object of this
branch of the federal legislature. In applying thus particularly to
the Senate a general observation suggested by the situation of the
country, I am governed by the consideration, that the credulous
votaries of State power cannot, upon their own principles, suspect,
that the State legislatures would be warped from their duty by any
external influence. But in reality the same situation must have the
same effect, in the primitive composition at least of the federal
House of Representatives: an improper bias towards the mercantile
class is as little to be expected from this quarter as from the other.

In order, perhaps, to give countenance to the objection at any rate,
it may be asked, is there not danger of an opposite bias in the
national government, which may dispose it to endeavor to secure a
monopoly of the federal administration to the landed class? As there
is little likelihood that the supposition of such a bias will have any
terrors for those who would be immediately injured by it, a labored
answer to this question will be dispensed with. It will be sufficient
to remark, first, that for the reasons elsewhere assigned, it is less
likely that any decided partiality should prevail in the councils of
the Union than in those of any of its members. Secondly, that there
would be no temptation to violate the Constitution in favor of the
landed class, because that class would, in the natural course of
things, enjoy as great a preponderancy as itself could desire. And
thirdly, that men accustomed to investigate the sources of public
prosperity upon a large scale, must be too well convinced of the
utility of commerce, to be inclined to inflict upon it so deep a wound
as would result from the entire exclusion of those who would best
understand its interest from a share in the management of them. The
importance of commerce, in the view of revenue alone, must effectually
guard it against the enmity of a body which would be continually
importuned in its favor, by the urgent calls of public necessity.

I the rather consult brevity in discussing the probability of a
preference founded upon a discrimination between the different kinds
of industry and property, because, as far as I understand the meaning
of the objectors, they contemplate a discrimination of another
kind. They appear to have in view, as the objects of the preference
with which they endeavor to alarm us, those whom they designate by the
description of "the wealthy and the well-born." These, it seems, are
to be exalted to an odious pre-eminence over the rest of their
fellow-citizens. At one time, however, their elevation is to be a
necessary consequence of the smallness of the representative body; at
another time it is to be effected by depriving the people at large of
the opportunity of exercising their right of suffrage in the choice of
that body.

But upon what principle is the discrimination of the places of
election to be made, in order to answer the purpose of the meditated
preference? Are "the wealthy and the well-born," as they are called,
confined to particular spots in the several States? Have they, by some
miraculous instinct or foresight, set apart in each of them a common
place of residence? Are they only to be met with in the towns or
cities? Or are they, on the contrary, scattered over the face of the
country as avarice or chance may have happened to cast their own lot
or that of their predecessors? If the latter is the case, (as every
intelligent man knows it to be, [1] ) is it not evident that the
policy of confining the places of election to particular districts
would be as subversive of its own aim as it would be exceptionable on
every other account? The truth is, that there is no method of securing
to the rich the preference apprehended, but by prescribing
qualifications of property either for those who may elect or be
elected. But this forms no part of the power to be conferred upon the
national government. Its authority would be expressly restricted to
the regulation of the TIMES, the PLACES, the MANNER of elections. The
qualifications of the persons who may choose or be chosen, as has been
remarked upon other occasions, are defined and fixed in the
Constitution, and are unalterable by the legislature.

Let it, however, be admitted, for argument sake, that the expedient
suggested might be successful; and let it at the same time be equally
taken for granted that all the scruples which a sense of duty or an
apprehension of the danger of the experiment might inspire, were
overcome in the breasts of the national rulers, still I imagine it
will hardly be pretended that they could ever hope to carry such an
enterprise into execution without the aid of a military force
sufficient to subdue the resistance of the great body of the
people. The improbability of the existence of a force equal to that
object has been discussed and demonstrated in different parts of these
papers; but that the futility of the objection under consideration may
appear in the strongest light, it shall be conceded for a moment that
such a force might exist, and the national government shall be
supposed to be in the actual possession of it. What will be the
conclusion? With a disposition to invade the essential rights of the
community, and with the means of gratifying that disposition, is it
presumable that the persons who were actuated by it would amuse
themselves in the ridiculous task of fabricating election laws for
securing a preference to a favorite class of men? Would they not be
likely to prefer a conduct better adapted to their own immediate
aggrandizement? Would they not rather boldly resolve to perpetuate
themselves in office by one decisive act of usurpation, than to trust
to precarious expedients which, in spite of all the precautions that
might accompany them, might terminate in the dismission, disgrace, and
ruin of their authors? Would they not fear that citizens, not less
tenacious than conscious of their rights, would flock from the remote
extremes of their respective States to the places of election, to
overthrow their tyrants, and to substitute men who would be disposed
to avenge the violated majesty of the people?
THE more candid opposers of the provision respecting elections,
contained in the plan of the convention, when pressed in argument,
will sometimes concede the propriety of that provision; with this
qualification, however, that it ought to have been accompanied with a
declaration, that all elections should be had in the counties where
the electors resided. This, say they, was a necessary precaution
against an abuse of the power. A declaration of this nature would
certainly have been harmless; so far as it would have had the effect
of quieting apprehensions, it might not have been undesirable. But it
would, in fact, have afforded little or no additional security against
the danger apprehended; and the want of it will never be considered,
by an impartial and judicious examiner, as a serious, still less as an
insuperable, objection to the plan. The different views taken of the
subject in the two preceding papers must be sufficient to satisfy all
dispassionate and discerning men, that if the public liberty should
ever be the victim of the ambition of the national rulers, the power
under examination, at least, will be guiltless of the sacrifice.

If those who are inclined to consult their jealousy only, would
exercise it in a careful inspection of the several State
constitutions, they would find little less room for disquietude and
alarm, from the latitude which most of them allow in respect to
elections, than from the latitude which is proposed to be allowed to
the national government in the same respect. A review of their
situation, in this particular, would tend greatly to remove any ill
impressions which may remain in regard to this matter. But as that
view would lead into long and tedious details, I shall content myself
with the single example of the State in which I write. The
constitution of New York makes no other provision for LOCALITY of
elections, than that the members of the Assembly shall be elected in
the COUNTIES; those of the Senate, in the great districts into which
the State is or may be divided: these at present are four in number,
and comprehend each from two to six counties. It may readily be
perceived that it would not be more difficult to the legislature of
New York to defeat the suffrages of the citizens of New York, by
confining elections to particular places, than for the legislature of
the United States to defeat the suffrages of the citizens of the
Union, by the like expedient. Suppose, for instance, the city of
Albany was to be appointed the sole place of election for the county
and district of which it is a part, would not the inhabitants of that
city speedily become the only electors of the members both of the
Senate and Assembly for that county and district? Can we imagine that
the electors who reside in the remote subdivisions of the counties of
Albany, Saratoga, Cambridge, etc., or in any part of the county of
Montgomery, would take the trouble to come to the city of Albany, to
give their votes for members of the Assembly or Senate, sooner than
they would repair to the city of New York, to participate in the
choice of the members of the federal House of Representatives? The
alarming indifference discoverable in the exercise of so invaluable a
privilege under the existing laws, which afford every facility to it,
furnishes a ready answer to this question. And, abstracted from any
experience on the subject, we can be at no loss to determine, that
when the place of election is at an INCONVENIENT DISTANCE from the
elector, the effect upon his conduct will be the same whether that
distance be twenty miles or twenty thousand miles. Hence it must
appear, that objections to the particular modification of the federal
power of regulating elections will, in substance, apply with equal
force to the modification of the like power in the constitution of
this State; and for this reason it will be impossible to acquit the
one, and to condemn the other. A similar comparison would lead to the
same conclusion in respect to the constitutions of most of the other
States.

If it should be said that defects in the State constitutions furnish
no apology for those which are to be found in the plan proposed, I
answer, that as the former have never been thought chargeable with
inattention to the security of liberty, where the imputations thrown
on the latter can be shown to be applicable to them also, the
presumption is that they are rather the cavilling refinements of a
predetermined opposition, than the well-founded inferences of a candid
research after truth. To those who are disposed to consider, as
innocent omissions in the State constitutions, what they regard as
unpardonable blemishes in the plan of the convention, nothing can be
said; or at most, they can only be asked to assign some substantial
reason why the representatives of the people in a single State should
be more impregnable to the lust of power, or other sinister motives,
than the representatives of the people of the United States? If they
cannot do this, they ought at least to prove to us that it is easier
to subvert the liberties of three millions of people, with the
advantage of local governments to head their opposition, than of two
hundred thousand people who are destitute of that advantage. And in
relation to the point immediately under consideration, they ought to
convince us that it is less probable that a predominant faction in a
single State should, in order to maintain its superiority, incline to
a preference of a particular class of electors, than that a similar
spirit should take possession of the representatives of thirteen
States, spread over a vast region, and in several respects
distinguishable from each other by a diversity of local circumstances,
prejudices, and interests.

Hitherto my observations have only aimed at a vindication of the
provision in question, on the ground of theoretic propriety, on that
of the danger of placing the power elsewhere, and on that of the
safety of placing it in the manner proposed. But there remains to be
mentioned a positive advantage which will result from this
disposition, and which could not as well have been obtained from any
other: I allude to the circumstance of uniformity in the time of
elections for the federal House of Representatives. It is more than
possible that this uniformity may be found by experience to be of
great importance to the public welfare, both as a security against the
perpetuation of the same spirit in the body, and as a cure for the
diseases of faction. If each State may choose its own time of
election, it is possible there may be at least as many different
periods as there are months in the year. The times of election in the
several States, as they are now established for local purposes, vary
between extremes as wide as March and November. The consequence of
this diversity would be that there could never happen a total
dissolution or renovation of the body at one time. If an improper
spirit of any kind should happen to prevail in it, that spirit would
be apt to infuse itself into the new members, as they come forward in
succession. The mass would be likely to remain nearly the same,
assimilating constantly to itself its gradual accretions. There is a
contagion in example which few men have sufficient force of mind to
resist. I am inclined to think that treble the duration in office,
with the condition of a total dissolution of the body at the same
time, might be less formidable to liberty than one third of that
duration subject to gradual and successive alterations.

Uniformity in the time of elections seems not less requisite for
executing the idea of a regular rotation in the Senate, and for
conveniently assembling the legislature at a stated period in each
year.

It may be asked, Why, then, could not a time have been fixed in the
Constitution? As the most zealous adversaries of the plan of the
convention in this State are, in general, not less zealous admirers of
the constitution of the State, the question may be retorted, and it
may be asked, Why was not a time for the like purpose fixed in the
constitution of this State? No better answer can be given than that it
was a matter which might safely be entrusted to legislative
discretion; and that if a time had been appointed, it might, upon
experiment, have been found less convenient than some other time. The
same answer may be given to the question put on the other side. And it
may be added that the supposed danger of a gradual change being merely
speculative, it would have been hardly advisable upon that speculation
to establish, as a fundamental point, what would deprive several
States of the convenience of having the elections for their own
governments and for the national government at the same epochs.
THE remaining powers which the plan of the convention allots to the
Senate, in a distinct capacity, are comprised in their participation
with the executive in the appointment to offices, and in their
judicial character as a court for the trial of impeachments. As in the
business of appointments the executive will be the principal agent,
the provisions relating to it will most properly be discussed in the
examination of that department. We will, therefore, conclude this head
with a view of the judicial character of the Senate.

A well-constituted court for the trial of impeachments is an object
not more to be desired than difficult to be obtained in a government
wholly elective. The subjects of its jurisdiction are those offenses
which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words,
from the abuse or violation of some public trust. They are of a nature
which may with peculiar propriety be denominated POLITICAL, as they
relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself. The
prosecution of them, for this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the
passions of the whole community, and to divide it into parties more or
less friendly or inimical to the accused. In many cases it will
connect itself with the pre-existing factions, and will enlist all
their animosities, partialities, influence, and interest on one side
or on the other; and in such cases there will always be the greatest
danger that the decision will be regulated more by the comparative
strength of parties, than by the real demonstrations of innocence or
guilt.

The delicacy and magnitude of a trust which so deeply concerns the
political reputation and existence of every man engaged in the
administration of public affairs, speak for themselves. The difficulty
of placing it rightly, in a government resting entirely on the basis
of periodical elections, will as readily be perceived, when it is
considered that the most conspicuous characters in it will, from that
circumstance, be too often the leaders or the tools of the most
cunning or the most numerous faction, and on this account, can hardly
be expected to possess the requisite neutrality towards those whose
conduct may be the subject of scrutiny.

The convention, it appears, thought the Senate the most fit depositary
of this important trust. Those who can best discern the intrinsic
difficulty of the thing, will be least hasty in condemning that
opinion, and will be most inclined to allow due weight to the
arguments which may be supposed to have produced it.

What, it may be asked, is the true spirit of the institution itself?
Is it not designed as a method of NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of
public men? If this be the design of it, who can so properly be the
inquisitors for the nation as the representatives of the nation
themselves? It is not disputed that the power of originating the
inquiry, or, in other words, of preferring the impeachment, ought to
be lodged in the hands of one branch of the legislative body. Will not
the reasons which indicate the propriety of this arrangement strongly
plead for an admission of the other branch of that body to a share of
the inquiry? The model from which the idea of this institution has
been borrowed, pointed out that course to the convention. In Great
Britain it is the province of the House of Commons to prefer the
impeachment, and of the House of Lords to decide upon it. Several of
the State constitutions have followed the example. As well the latter,
as the former, seem to have regarded the practice of impeachments as a
bridle in the hands of the legislative body upon the executive
servants of the government. Is not this the true light in which it
ought to be regarded?  Where else than in the Senate could have been
found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or sufficiently independent?
What other body would be likely to feel CONFIDENCE ENOUGH IN ITS OWN
SITUATION, to preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary
impartiality between an INDIVIDUAL accused, and the REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE PEOPLE, HIS ACCUSERS?  Could the Supreme Court have been relied
upon as answering this description? It is much to be doubted, whether
the members of that tribunal would at all times be endowed with so
eminent a portion of fortitude, as would be called for in the
execution of so difficult a task; and it is still more to be doubted,
whether they would possess the degree of credit and authority, which
might, on certain occasions, be indispensable towards reconciling the
people to a decision that should happen to clash with an accusation
brought by their immediate representatives. A deficiency in the first,
would be fatal to the accused; in the last, dangerous to the public
tranquillity. The hazard in both these respects, could only be
avoided, if at all, by rendering that tribunal more numerous than
would consist with a reasonable attention to economy. The necessity of
a numerous court for the trial of impeachments, is equally dictated by
the nature of the proceeding. This can never be tied down by such
strict rules, either in the delineation of the offense by the
prosecutors, or in the construction of it by the judges, as in common
cases serve to limit the discretion of courts in favor of personal
security. There will be no jury to stand between the judges who are to
pronounce the sentence of the law, and the party who is to receive or
suffer it. The awful discretion which a court of impeachments must
necessarily have, to doom to honor or to infamy the most confidential
and the most distinguished characters of the community, forbids the
commitment of the trust to a small number of persons.

These considerations seem alone sufficient to authorize a conclusion,
that the Supreme Court would have been an improper substitute for the
Senate, as a court of impeachments. There remains a further
consideration, which will not a little strengthen this conclusion. It
is this: The punishment which may be the consequence of conviction
upon impeachment, is not to terminate the chastisement of the
offender. After having been sentenced to a perpetual ostracism from
the esteem and confidence, and honors and emoluments of his country,
he will still be liable to prosecution and punishment in the ordinary
course of law. Would it be proper that the persons who had disposed of
his fame, and his most valuable rights as a citizen in one trial,
should, in another trial, for the same offense, be also the disposers
of his life and his fortune? Would there not be the greatest reason to
apprehend, that error, in the first sentence, would be the parent of
error in the second sentence? That the strong bias of one decision
would be apt to overrule the influence of any new lights which might
be brought to vary the complexion of another decision? Those who know
anything of human nature, will not hesitate to answer these questions
in the affirmative; and will be at no loss to perceive, that by making
the same persons judges in both cases, those who might happen to be
the objects of prosecution would, in a great measure, be deprived of
the double security intended them by a double trial. The loss of life
and estate would often be virtually included in a sentence which, in
its terms, imported nothing more than dismission from a present, and
disqualification for a future, office. It may be said, that the
intervention of a jury, in the second instance, would obviate the
danger. But juries are frequently influenced by the opinions of
judges. They are sometimes induced to find special verdicts, which
refer the main question to the decision of the court. Who would be
willing to stake his life and his estate upon the verdict of a jury
acting under the auspices of judges who had predetermined his guilt?
Would it have been an improvement of the plan, to have united the
Supreme Court with the Senate, in the formation of the court of
impeachments? This union would certainly have been attended with
several advantages; but would they not have been overbalanced by the
signal disadvantage, already stated, arising from the agency of the
same judges in the double prosecution to which the offender would be
liable? To a certain extent, the benefits of that union will be
obtained from making the chief justice of the Supreme Court the
president of the court of impeachments, as is proposed to be done in
the plan of the convention; while the inconveniences of an entire
incorporation of the former into the latter will be substantially
avoided. This was perhaps the prudent mean. I forbear to remark upon
the additional pretext for clamor against the judiciary, which so
considerable an augmentation of its authority would have afforded.

Would it have been desirable to have composed the court for the trial
of impeachments, of persons wholly distinct from the other departments
of the government? There are weighty arguments, as well against, as in
favor of, such a plan. To some minds it will not appear a trivial
objection, that it could tend to increase the complexity of the
political machine, and to add a new spring to the government, the
utility of which would at best be questionable. But an objection which
will not be thought by any unworthy of attention, is this: a court
formed upon such a plan, would either be attended with a heavy
expense, or might in practice be subject to a variety of casualties
and inconveniences. It must either consist of permanent officers,
stationary at the seat of government, and of course entitled to fixed
and regular stipends, or of certain officers of the State governments
to be called upon whenever an impeachment was actually depending. It
will not be easy to imagine any third mode materially different, which
could rationally be proposed. As the court, for reasons already given,
ought to be numerous, the first scheme will be reprobated by every man
who can compare the extent of the public wants with the means of
supplying them. The second will be espoused with caution by those who
will seriously consider the difficulty of collecting men dispersed
over the whole Union; the injury to the innocent, from the
procrastinated determination of the charges which might be brought
against them; the advantage to the guilty, from the opportunities
which delay would afford to intrigue and corruption; and in some cases
the detriment to the State, from the prolonged inaction of men whose
firm and faithful execution of their duty might have exposed them to
the persecution of an intemperate or designing majority in the House
of Representatives. Though this latter supposition may seem harsh, and
might not be likely often to be verified, yet it ought not to be
forgotten that the demon of faction will, at certain seasons, extend
his sceptre over all numerous bodies of men.

But though one or the other of the substitutes which have been
examined, or some other that might be devised, should be thought
preferable to the plan in this respect, reported by the convention, it
will not follow that the Constitution ought for this reason to be
rejected. If mankind were to resolve to agree in no institution of
government, until every part of it had been adjusted to the most exact
standard of perfection, society would soon become a general scene of
anarchy, and the world a desert. Where is the standard of perfection
to be found? Who will undertake to unite the discordant opinions of a
whole community, in the same judgment of it; and to prevail upon one
conceited projector to renounce his INFALLIBLE criterion for the
FALLIBLE criterion of his more CONCEITED NEIGHBOR? To answer the
purpose of the adversaries of the Constitution, they ought to prove,
not merely that particular provisions in it are not the best which
might have been imagined, but that the plan upon the whole is bad and
pernicious.
A REVIEW of the principal objections that have appeared against the
proposed court for the trial of impeachments, will not improbably
eradicate the remains of any unfavorable impressions which may still
exist in regard to this matter.

The FIRST of these objections is, that the provision in question
confounds legislative and judiciary authorities in the same body, in
violation of that important and well established maxim which requires
a separation between the different departments of power. The true
meaning of this maxim has been discussed and ascertained in another
place, and has been shown to be entirely compatible with a partial
intermixture of those departments for special purposes, preserving
them, in the main, distinct and unconnected. This partial intermixture
is even, in some cases, not only proper but necessary to the mutual
defense of the several members of the government against each
other. An absolute or qualified negative in the executive upon the
acts of the legislative body, is admitted, by the ablest adepts in
political science, to be an indispensable barrier against the
encroachments of the latter upon the former. And it may, perhaps, with
no less reason be contended, that the powers relating to impeachments
are, as before intimated, an essential check in the hands of that body
upon the encroachments of the executive. The division of them between
the two branches of the legislature, assigning to one the right of
accusing, to the other the right of judging, avoids the inconvenience
of making the same persons both accusers and judges; and guards
against the danger of persecution, from the prevalency of a factious
spirit in either of those branches. As the concurrence of two thirds
of the Senate will be requisite to a condemnation, the security to
innocence, from this additional circumstance, will be as complete as
itself can desire.

It is curious to observe, with what vehemence this part of the plan is
assailed, on the principle here taken notice of, by men who profess to
admire, without exception, the constitution of this State; while that
constitution makes the Senate, together with the chancellor and judges
of the Supreme Court, not only a court of impeachments, but the
highest judicatory in the State, in all causes, civil and
criminal. The proportion, in point of numbers, of the chancellor and
judges to the senators, is so inconsiderable, that the judiciary
authority of New York, in the last resort, may, with truth, be said to
reside in its Senate. If the plan of the convention be, in this
respect, chargeable with a departure from the celebrated maxim which
has been so often mentioned, and seems to be so little understood, how
much more culpable must be the constitution of New York? [1] A SECOND
objection to the Senate, as a court of impeachments, is, that it
contributes to an undue accumulation of power in that body, tending to
give to the government a countenance too aristocratic. The Senate, it
is observed, is to have concurrent authority with the Executive in the
formation of treaties and in the appointment to offices: if, say the
objectors, to these prerogatives is added that of deciding in all
cases of impeachment, it will give a decided predominancy to
senatorial influence. To an objection so little precise in itself, it
is not easy to find a very precise answer. Where is the measure or
criterion to which we can appeal, for determining what will give the
Senate too much, too little, or barely the proper degree of influence?
Will it not be more safe, as well as more simple, to dismiss such
vague and uncertain calculations, to examine each power by itself, and
to decide, on general principles, where it may be deposited with most
advantage and least inconvenience?  If we take this course, it will
lead to a more intelligible, if not to a more certain result. The
disposition of the power of making treaties, which has obtained in the
plan of the convention, will, then, if I mistake not, appear to be
fully justified by the considerations stated in a former number, and
by others which will occur under the next head of our inquiries. The
expediency of the junction of the Senate with the Executive, in the
power of appointing to offices, will, I trust, be placed in a light
not less satisfactory, in the disquisitions under the same head. And I
flatter myself the observations in my last paper must have gone no
inconsiderable way towards proving that it was not easy, if
practicable, to find a more fit receptacle for the power of
determining impeachments, than that which has been chosen. If this be
truly the case, the hypothetical dread of the too great weight of the
Senate ought to be discarded from our reasonings.

But this hypothesis, such as it is, has already been refuted in the
remarks applied to the duration in office prescribed for the
senators. It was by them shown, as well on the credit of historical
examples, as from the reason of the thing, that the most POPULAR
branch of every government, partaking of the republican genius, by
being generally the favorite of the people, will be as generally a
full match, if not an overmatch, for every other member of the
Government.

But independent of this most active and operative principle, to secure
the equilibrium of the national House of Representatives, the plan of
the convention has provided in its favor several important
counterpoises to the additional authorities to be conferred upon the
Senate. The exclusive privilege of originating money bills will belong
to the House of Representatives. The same house will possess the sole
right of instituting impeachments: is not this a complete
counterbalance to that of determining them? The same house will be the
umpire in all elections of the President, which do not unite the
suffrages of a majority of the whole number of electors; a case which
it cannot be doubted will sometimes, if not frequently, happen. The
constant possibility of the thing must be a fruitful source of
influence to that body. The more it is contemplated, the more
important will appear this ultimate though contingent power, of
deciding the competitions of the most illustrious citizens of the
Union, for the first office in it. It would not perhaps be rash to
predict, that as a mean of influence it will be found to outweigh all
the peculiar attributes of the Senate.

A THIRD objection to the Senate as a court of impeachments, is drawn
from the agency they are to have in the appointments to office. It is
imagined that they would be too indulgent judges of the conduct of
men, in whose official creation they had participated. The principle
of this objection would condemn a practice, which is to be seen in all
the State governments, if not in all the governments with which we are
acquainted: I mean that of rendering those who hold offices during
pleasure, dependent on the pleasure of those who appoint them. With
equal plausibility might it be alleged in this case, that the
favoritism of the latter would always be an asylum for the misbehavior
of the former. But that practice, in contradiction to this principle,
proceeds upon the presumption, that the responsibility of those who
appoint, for the fitness and competency of the persons on whom they
bestow their choice, and the interest they will have in the
respectable and prosperous administration of affairs, will inspire a
sufficient disposition to dismiss from a share in it all such who, by
their conduct, shall have proved themselves unworthy of the confidence
reposed in them. Though facts may not always correspond with this
presumption, yet if it be, in the main, just, it must destroy the
supposition that the Senate, who will merely sanction the choice of
the Executive, should feel a bias, towards the objects of that choice,
strong enough to blind them to the evidences of guilt so
extraordinary, as to have induced the representatives of the nation to
become its accusers.

If any further arguments were necessary to evince the improbability of
such a bias, it might be found in the nature of the agency of the
Senate in the business of appointments.

It will be the office of the President to NOMINATE, and, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to APPOINT. There will, of course,
be no exertion of CHOICE on the part of the Senate. They may defeat
one choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make another; but they
cannot themselves CHOOSE, they can only ratify or reject the choice of
the President. They might even entertain a preference to some other
person, at the very moment they were assenting to the one proposed,
because there might be no positive ground of opposition to him; and
they could not be sure, if they withheld their assent, that the
subsequent nomination would fall upon their own favorite, or upon any
other person in their estimation more meritorious than the one
rejected. Thus it could hardly happen, that the majority of the Senate
would feel any other complacency towards the object of an appointment
than such as the appearances of merit might inspire, and the proofs of
the want of it destroy.

A FOURTH objection to the Senate in the capacity of a court of
impeachments, is derived from its union with the Executive in the
power of making treaties. This, it has been said, would constitute the
senators their own judges, in every case of a corrupt or perfidious
execution of that trust. After having combined with the Executive in
betraying the interests of the nation in a ruinous treaty, what
prospect, it is asked, would there be of their being made to suffer
the punishment they would deserve, when they were themselves to decide
upon the accusation brought against them for the treachery of which
they have been guilty?  This objection has been circulated with more
earnestness and with greater show of reason than any other which has
appeared against this part of the plan; and yet I am deceived if it
does not rest upon an erroneous foundation.

The security essentially intended by the Constitution against
corruption and treachery in the formation of treaties, is to be sought
for in the numbers and characters of those who are to make them. The
JOINT AGENCY of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, and of two thirds
of the members of a body selected by the collective wisdom of the
legislatures of the several States, is designed to be the pledge for
the fidelity of the national councils in this particular. The
convention might with propriety have meditated the punishment of the
Executive, for a deviation from the instructions of the Senate, or a
want of integrity in the conduct of the negotiations committed to him;
they might also have had in view the punishment of a few leading
individuals in the Senate, who should have prostituted their influence
in that body as the mercenary instruments of foreign corruption: but
they could not, with more or with equal propriety, have contemplated
the impeachment and punishment of two thirds of the Senate, consenting
to an improper treaty, than of a majority of that or of the other
branch of the national legislature, consenting to a pernicious or
unconstitutional law, a principle which, I believe, has never been
admitted into any government. How, in fact, could a majority in the
House of Representatives impeach themselves? Not better, it is
evident, than two thirds of the Senate might try themselves. And yet
what reason is there, that a majority of the House of Representatives,
sacrificing the interests of the society by an unjust and tyrannical
act of legislation, should escape with impunity, more than two thirds
of the Senate, sacrificing the same interests in an injurious treaty
with a foreign power? The truth is, that in all such cases it is
essential to the freedom and to the necessary independence of the
deliberations of the body, that the members of it should be exempt
from punishment for acts done in a collective capacity; and the
security to the society must depend on the care which is taken to
confide the trust to proper hands, to make it their interest to
execute it with fidelity, and to make it as difficult as possible for
them to combine in any interest opposite to that of the public good.

So far as might concern the misbehavior of the Executive in perverting
the instructions or contravening the views of the Senate, we need not
be apprehensive of the want of a disposition in that body to punish
the abuse of their confidence or to vindicate their own authority. We
may thus far count upon their pride, if not upon their virtue. And so
far even as might concern the corruption of leading members, by whose
arts and influence the majority may have been inveigled into measures
odious to the community, if the proofs of that corruption should be
satisfactory, the usual propensity of human nature will warrant us in
concluding that there would be commonly no defect of inclination in
the body to divert the public resentment from themselves by a ready
sacrifice of the authors of their mismanagement and disgrace.
THE constitution of the executive department of the proposed
government, claims next our attention.

There is hardly any part of the system which could have been attended
with greater difficulty in the arrangement of it than this; and there
is, perhaps, none which has been inveighed against with less candor or
criticised with less judgment.

Here the writers against the Constitution seem to have taken pains to
signalize their talent of misrepresentation. Calculating upon the
aversion of the people to monarchy, they have endeavored to enlist all
their jealousies and apprehensions in opposition to the intended
President of the United States; not merely as the embryo, but as the
full-grown progeny, of that detested parent. To establish the
pretended affinity, they have not scrupled to draw resources even from
the regions of fiction. The authorities of a magistrate, in few
instances greater, in some instances less, than those of a governor of
New York, have been magnified into more than royal prerogatives. He
has been decorated with attributes superior in dignity and splendor to
those of a king of Great Britain. He has been shown to us with the
diadem sparkling on his brow and the imperial purple flowing in his
train. He has been seated on a throne surrounded with minions and
mistresses, giving audience to the envoys of foreign potentates, in
all the supercilious pomp of majesty. The images of Asiatic despotism
and voluptuousness have scarcely been wanting to crown the exaggerated
scene. We have been taught to tremble at the terrific visages of
murdering janizaries, and to blush at the unveiled mysteries of a
future seraglio.

Attempts so extravagant as these to disfigure or, it might rather be
said, to metamorphose the object, render it necessary to take an
accurate view of its real nature and form: in order as well to
ascertain its true aspect and genuine appearance, as to unmask the
disingenuity and expose the fallacy of the counterfeit resemblances
which have been so insidiously, as well as industriously, propagated.

In the execution of this task, there is no man who would not find it
an arduous effort either to behold with moderation, or to treat with
seriousness, the devices, not less weak than wicked, which have been
contrived to pervert the public opinion in relation to the
subject. They so far exceed the usual though unjustifiable licenses of
party artifice, that even in a disposition the most candid and
tolerant, they must force the sentiments which favor an indulgent
construction of the conduct of political adversaries to give place to
a voluntary and unreserved indignation. It is impossible not to bestow
the imputation of deliberate imposture and deception upon the gross
pretense of a similitude between a king of Great Britain and a
magistrate of the character marked out for that of the President of
the United States. It is still more impossible to withhold that
imputation from the rash and barefaced expedients which have been
employed to give success to the attempted imposition.

In one instance, which I cite as a sample of the general spirit, the
temerity has proceeded so far as to ascribe to the President of the
United States a power which by the instrument reported is EXPRESSLY
allotted to the Executives of the individual States. I mean the power
of filling casual vacancies in the Senate.

This bold experiment upon the discernment of his countrymen has been
hazarded by a writer who (whatever may be his real merit) has had no
inconsiderable share in the applauses of his party [1] ; and who, upon
this false and unfounded suggestion, has built a series of
observations equally false and unfounded. Let him now be confronted
with the evidence of the fact, and let him, if he be able, justify or
extenuate the shameful outrage he has offered to the dictates of truth
and to the rules of fair dealing.

The second clause of the second section of the second article empowers
the President of the United States "to nominate, and by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other
OFFICERS of United States whose appointments are NOT in the
Constitution OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR, and WHICH SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY
LAW." Immediately after this clause follows another in these words:
"The President shall have power to fill up ?? VACANCIES that may
happen DURING THE RECESS OF THE SENATE, by granting commissions which
shall EXPIRE AT THE END OF THEIR NEXT SESSION." It is from this last
provision that the pretended power of the President to fill vacancies
in the Senate has been deduced. A slight attention to the connection
of the clauses, and to the obvious meaning of the terms, will satisfy
us that the deduction is not even colorable.

The first of these two clauses, it is clear, only provides a mode for
appointing such officers, "whose appointments are NOT OTHERWISE
PROVIDED FOR in the Constitution, and which SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY
LAW"; of course it cannot extend to the appointments of senators,
whose appointments are OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR in the Constitution [2]
, and who are ESTABLISHED BY THE CONSTITUTION, and will not require a
future establishment by law. This position will hardly be contested.

The last of these two clauses, it is equally clear, cannot be
understood to comprehend the power of filling vacancies in the Senate,
for the following reasons: First. The relation in which that clause
stands to the other, which declares the general mode of appointing
officers of the United States, denotes it to be nothing more than a
supplement to the other, for the purpose of establishing an auxiliary
method of appointment, in cases to which the general method was
inadequate. The ordinary power of appointment is confined to the
President and Senate JOINTLY, and can therefore only be exercised
during the session of the Senate; but as it would have been improper
to oblige this body to be continually in session for the appointment
of officers and as vacancies might happen IN THEIR RECESS, which it
might be necessary for the public service to fill without delay, the
succeeding clause is evidently intended to authorize the President,
SINGLY, to make temporary appointments "during the recess of the
Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their
next session." Secondly. If this clause is to be considered as
supplementary to the one which precedes, the VACANCIES of which it
speaks must be construed to relate to the "officers" described in the
preceding one; and this, we have seen, excludes from its description
the members of the Senate. Thirdly. The time within which the power is
to operate, "during the recess of the Senate," and the duration of the
appointments, "to the end of the next session" of that body, conspire
to elucidate the sense of the provision, which, if it had been
intended to comprehend senators, would naturally have referred the
temporary power of filling vacancies to the recess of the State
legislatures, who are to make the permanent appointments, and not to
the recess of the national Senate, who are to have no concern in those
appointments; and would have extended the duration in office of the
temporary senators to the next session of the legislature of the
State, in whose representation the vacancies had happened, instead of
making it to expire at the end of the ensuing session of the national
Senate. The circumstances of the body authorized to make the permanent
appointments would, of course, have governed the modification of a
power which related to the temporary appointments; and as the national
Senate is the body, whose situation is alone contemplated in the
clause upon which the suggestion under examination has been founded,
the vacancies to which it alludes can only be deemed to respect those
officers in whose appointment that body has a concurrent agency with
the President. But lastly, the first and second clauses of the third
section of the first article, not only obviate all possibility of
doubt, but destroy the pretext of misconception. The former provides,
that "the Senate of the United States shall be composed of two
Senators from each State, chosen BY THE LEGISLATURE THEREOF for six
years"; and the latter directs, that, "if vacancies in that body
should happen by resignation or otherwise, DURING THE RECESS OF THE
LEGISLATURE OF ANY STATE, the Executive THEREOF may make temporary
appointments until the NEXT MEETING OF THE LEGISLATURE, which shall
then fill such vacancies." Here is an express power given, in clear
and unambiguous terms, to the State Executives, to fill casual
vacancies in the Senate, by temporary appointments; which not only
invalidates the supposition, that the clause before considered could
have been intended to confer that power upon the President of the
United States, but proves that this supposition, destitute as it is
even of the merit of plausibility, must have originated in an
intention to deceive the people, too palpable to be obscured by
sophistry, too atrocious to be palliated by hypocrisy.

I have taken the pains to select this instance of misrepresentation,
and to place it in a clear and strong light, as an unequivocal proof
of the unwarrantable arts which are practiced to prevent a fair and
impartial judgment of the real merits of the Constitution submitted to
the consideration of the people. Nor have I scrupled, in so flagrant a
case, to allow myself a severity of animadversion little congenial
with the general spirit of these papers. I hesitate not to submit it
to the decision of any candid and honest adversary of the proposed
government, whether language can furnish epithets of too much
asperity, for so shameless and so prostitute an attempt to impose on
the citizens of America.
THE mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate of the United States
is almost the only part of the system, of any consequence, which has
escaped without severe censure, or which has received the slightest
mark of approbation from its opponents. The most plausible of these,
who has appeared in print, has even deigned to admit that the election
of the President is pretty well guarded. [1] I venture somewhat
further, and hesitate not to affirm, that if the manner of it be not
perfect, it is at least excellent. It unites in an eminent degree all
the advantages, the union of which was to be wished for.

It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the
choice of the person to whom so important a trust was to be
confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of making
it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people
for the special purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.

It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made
by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station,
and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a
judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were
proper to govern their choice. A small number of persons, selected by
their fellow-citizens from the general mass, will be most likely to
possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated
investigations.

It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little opportunity as
possible to tumult and disorder. This evil was not least to be dreaded
in the election of a magistrate, who was to have so important an
agency in the administration of the government as the President of the
United States. But the precautions which have been so happily
concerted in the system under consideration, promise an effectual
security against this mischief. The choice of SEVERAL, to form an
intermediate body of electors, will be much less apt to convulse the
community with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice
of ONE who was himself to be the final object of the public
wishes. And as the electors, chosen in each State, are to assemble and
vote in the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided
situation will expose them much less to heats and ferments, which
might be communicated from them to the people, than if they were all
to be convened at one time, in one place.

Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle
should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption. These most
deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been
expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter, but
chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper
ascendant in our councils. How could they better gratify this, than by
raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
But the convention have guarded against all danger of this sort, with
the most provident and judicious attention. They have not made the
appointment of the President to depend on any preexisting bodies of
men, who might be tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes;
but they have referred it in the first instance to an immediate act of
the people of America, to be exerted in the choice of persons for the
temporary and sole purpose of making the appointment. And they have
excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who from situation
might be suspected of too great devotion to the President in
office. No senator, representative, or other person holding a place of
trust or profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the
electors. Thus without corrupting the body of the people, the
immediate agents in the election will at least enter upon the task
free from any sinister bias. Their transient existence, and their
detached situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfactory
prospect of their continuing so, to the conclusion of it. The business
of corruption, when it is to embrace so considerable a number of men,
requires time as well as means. Nor would it be found easy suddenly to
embark them, dispersed as they would be over thirteen States, in any
combinations founded upon motives, which though they could not
properly be denominated corrupt, might yet be of a nature to mislead
them from their duty.

Another and no less important desideratum was, that the Executive
should be independent for his continuance in office on all but the
people themselves. He might otherwise be tempted to sacrifice his duty
to his complaisance for those whose favor was necessary to the
duration of his official consequence. This advantage will also be
secured, by making his re-election to depend on a special body of
representatives, deputed by the society for the single purpose of
making the important choice.

All these advantages will happily combine in the plan devised by the
convention; which is, that the people of each State shall choose a
number of persons as electors, equal to the number of senators and
representatives of such State in the national government, who shall
assemble within the State, and vote for some fit person as
President. Their votes, thus given, are to be transmitted to the seat
of the national government, and the person who may happen to have a
majority of the whole number of votes will be the President. But as a
majority of the votes might not always happen to centre in one man,
and as it might be unsafe to permit less than a majority to be
conclusive, it is provided that, in such a contingency, the House of
Representatives shall select out of the candidates who shall have the
five highest number of votes, the man who in their opinion may be best
qualified for the office.

The process of election affords a moral certainty, that the office of
President will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an
eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications. Talents for
low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may alone suffice to
elevate a man to the first honors in a single State; but it will
require other talents, and a different kind of merit, to establish him
in the esteem and confidence of the whole Union, or of so considerable
a portion of it as would be necessary to make him a successful
candidate for the distinguished office of President of the United
States. It will not be too strong to say, that there will be a
constant probability of seeing the station filled by characters
pre-eminent for ability and virtue. And this will be thought no
inconsiderable recommendation of the Constitution, by those who are
able to estimate the share which the executive in every government
must necessarily have in its good or ill administration. Though we
cannot acquiesce in the political heresy of the poet who says: "For
forms of government let fools contest That which is best administered
is best," yet we may safely pronounce, that the true test of a good
government is its aptitude and tendency to produce a good
administration.

The Vice-President is to be chosen in the same manner with the
President; with this difference, that the Senate is to do, in respect
to the former, what is to be done by the House of Representatives, in
respect to the latter.

The appointment of an extraordinary person, as Vice-President, has
been objected to as superfluous, if not mischievous. It has been
alleged, that it would have been preferable to have authorized the
Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that
description. But two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the
convention in this respect. One is, that to secure at all times the
possibility of a definite resolution of the body, it is necessary that
the President should have only a casting vote. And to take the senator
of any State from his seat as senator, to place him in that of
President of the Senate, would be to exchange, in regard to the State
from which he came, a constant for a contingent vote. The other
consideration is, that as the Vice-President may occasionally become a
substitute for the President, in the supreme executive magistracy, all
the reasons which recommend the mode of election prescribed for the
one, apply with great if not with equal force to the manner of
appointing the other. It is remarkable that in this, as in most other
instances, the objection which is made would lie against the
constitution of this State. We have a Lieutenant-Governor, chosen by
the people at large, who presides in the Senate, and is the
constitutional substitute for the Governor, in casualties similar to
those which would authorize the Vice-President to exercise the
authorities and discharge the duties of the President.
I PROCEED now to trace the real characters of the proposed Executive,
as they are marked out in the plan of the convention. This will serve
to place in a strong light the unfairness of the representations which
have been made in regard to it.

The first thing which strikes our attention is, that the executive
authority, with few exceptions, is to be vested in a single
magistrate. This will scarcely, however, be considered as a point upon
which any comparison can be grounded; for if, in this particular,
there be a resemblance to the king of Great Britain, there is not less
a resemblance to the Grand Seignior, to the khan of Tartary, to the
Man of the Seven Mountains, or to the governor of New York.

That magistrate is to be elected for FOUR years; and is to be
re-eligible as often as the people of the United States shall think
him worthy of their confidence. In these circumstances there is a
total dissimilitude between HIM and a king of Great Britain, who is an
HEREDITARY monarch, possessing the crown as a patrimony descendible to
his heirs forever; but there is a close analogy between HIM and a
governor of New York, who is elected for THREE years, and is
re-eligible without limitation or intermission. If we consider how
much less time would be requisite for establishing a dangerous
influence in a single State, than for establishing a like influence
throughout the United States, we must conclude that a duration of FOUR
years for the Chief Magistrate of the Union is a degree of permanency
far less to be dreaded in that office, than a duration of THREE years
for a corresponding office in a single State.

The President of the United States would be liable to be impeached,
tried, and, upon conviction of treason, bribery, or other high crimes
or misdemeanors, removed from office; and would afterwards be liable
to prosecution and punishment in the ordinary course of law. The
person of the king of Great Britain is sacred and inviolable; there is
no constitutional tribunal to which he is amenable; no punishment to
which he can be subjected without involving the crisis of a national
revolution. In this delicate and important circumstance of personal
responsibility, the President of Confederated America would stand upon
no better ground than a governor of New York, and upon worse ground
than the governors of Maryland and Delaware.

The President of the United States is to have power to return a bill,
which shall have passed the two branches of the legislature, for
reconsideration; and the bill so returned is to become a law, if, upon
that reconsideration, it be approved by two thirds of both houses. The
king of Great Britain, on his part, has an absolute negative upon the
acts of the two houses of Parliament. The disuse of that power for a
considerable time past does not affect the reality of its existence;
and is to be ascribed wholly to the crown's having found the means of
substituting influence to authority, or the art of gaining a majority
in one or the other of the two houses, to the necessity of exerting a
prerogative which could seldom be exerted without hazarding some
degree of national agitation. The qualified negative of the President
differs widely from this absolute negative of the British sovereign;
and tallies exactly with the revisionary authority of the council of
revision of this State, of which the governor is a constituent
part. In this respect the power of the President would exceed that of
the governor of New York, because the former would possess, singly,
what the latter shares with the chancellor and judges; but it would be
precisely the same with that of the governor of Massachusetts, whose
constitution, as to this article, seems to have been the original from
which the convention have copied.

The President is to be the ``commander-in-chief of the army and navy
of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when
called into the actual service of the United States. He is to have
power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United
States, EXCEPT IN CASES OF IMPEACHMENT; to recommend to the
consideration of Congress such measures as he shall judge necessary
and expedient; to convene, on extraordinary occasions, both houses of
the legislature, or either of them, and, in case of disagreement
between them WITH RESPECT TO THE TIME OF ADJOURNMENT, to adjourn them
to such time as he shall think proper; to take care that the laws be
faithfully executed; and to commission all officers of the United
States." In most of these particulars, the power of the President will
resemble equally that of the king of Great Britain and of the governor
of New York. The most material points of difference are these:
First. The President will have only the occasional command of such
part of the militia of the nation as by legislative provision may be
called into the actual service of the Union. The king of Great Britain
and the governor of New York have at all times the entire command of
all the militia within their several jurisdictions. In this article,
therefore, the power of the President would be inferior to that of
either the monarch or the governor. Secondly. The President is to be
commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States. In this
respect his authority would be nominally the same with that of the
king of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to it. It would
amount to nothing more than the supreme command and direction of the
military and naval forces, as first General and admiral of the
Confederacy; while that of the British king extends to the DECLARING
of war and to the RAISING and REGULATING of fleets and armies, all
which, by the Constitution under consideration, would appertain to the
legislature. [1] The governor of New York, on the other hand, is by
the constitution of the State vested only with the command of its
militia and navy. But the constitutions of several of the States
expressly declare their governors to be commanders-in-chief, as well
of the army as navy; and it may well be a question, whether those of
New Hampshire and Massachusetts, in particular, do not, in this
instance, confer larger powers upon their respective governors, than
could be claimed by a President of the United States. Thirdly. The
power of the President, in respect to pardons, would extend to all
cases, EXCEPT THOSE OF IMPEACHMENT. The governor of New York may
pardon in all cases, even in those of impeachment, except for treason
and murder. Is not the power of the governor, in this article, on a
calculation of political consequences, greater than that of the
President? All conspiracies and plots against the government, which
have not been matured into actual treason, may be screened from
punishment of every kind, by the interposition of the prerogative of
pardoning. If a governor of New York, therefore, should be at the head
of any such conspiracy, until the design had been ripened into actual
hostility he could insure his accomplices and adherents an entire
impunity. A President of the Union, on the other hand, though he may
even pardon treason, when prosecuted in the ordinary course of law,
could shelter no offender, in any degree, from the effects of
impeachment and conviction. Would not the prospect of a total
indemnity for all the preliminary steps be a greater temptation to
undertake and persevere in an enterprise against the public liberty,
than the mere prospect of an exemption from death and confiscation, if
the final execution of the design, upon an actual appeal to arms,
should miscarry? Would this last expectation have any influence at
all, when the probability was computed, that the person who was to
afford that exemption might himself be involved in the consequences of
the measure, and might be incapacitated by his agency in it from
affording the desired impunity? The better to judge of this matter, it
will be necessary to recollect, that, by the proposed Constitution,
the offense of treason is limited ``to levying war upon the United
States, and adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort";
and that by the laws of New York it is confined within similar
bounds. Fourthly. The President can only adjourn the national
legislature in the single case of disagreement about the time of
adjournment. The British monarch may prorogue or even dissolve the
Parliament. The governor of New York may also prorogue the legislature
of this State for a limited time; a power which, in certain
situations, may be employed to very important purposes.

The President is to have power, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the senators present
concur. The king of Great Britain is the sole and absolute
representative of the nation in all foreign transactions. He can of
his own accord make treaties of peace, commerce, alliance, and of
every other description. It has been insinuated, that his authority in
this respect is not conclusive, and that his conventions with foreign
powers are subject to the revision, and stand in need of the
ratification, of Parliament. But I believe this doctrine was never
heard of, until it was broached upon the present occasion. Every
jurist [2] of that kingdom, and every other man acquainted with its
Constitution, knows, as an established fact, that the prerogative of
making treaties exists in the crown in its utmost plentitude; and that
the compacts entered into by the royal authority have the most
complete legal validity and perfection, independent of any other
sanction. The Parliament, it is true, is sometimes seen employing
itself in altering the existing laws to conform them to the
stipulations in a new treaty; and this may have possibly given birth
to the imagination, that its co-operation was necessary to the
obligatory efficacy of the treaty. But this parliamentary
interposition proceeds from a different cause: from the necessity of
adjusting a most artificial and intricate system of revenue and
commercial laws, to the changes made in them by the operation of the
treaty; and of adapting new provisions and precautions to the new
state of things, to keep the machine from running into disorder. In
this respect, therefore, there is no comparison between the intended
power of the President and the actual power of the British
sovereign. The one can perform alone what the other can do only with
the concurrence of a branch of the legislature. It must be admitted,
that, in this instance, the power of the federal Executive would
exceed that of any State Executive. But this arises naturally from the
sovereign power which relates to treaties. If the Confederacy were to
be dissolved, it would become a question, whether the Executives of
the several States were not solely invested with that delicate and
important prerogative.

The President is also to be authorized to receive ambassadors and
other public ministers. This, though it has been a rich theme of
declamation, is more a matter of dignity than of authority. It is a
circumstance which will be without consequence in the administration
of the government; and it was far more convenient that it should be
arranged in this manner, than that there should be a necessity of
convening the legislature, or one of its branches, upon every arrival
of a foreign minister, though it were merely to take the place of a
departed predecessor.

The President is to nominate, and, WITH THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE
SENATE, to appoint ambassadors and other public ministers, judges of
the Supreme Court, and in general all officers of the United States
established by law, and whose appointments are not otherwise provided
for by the Constitution. The king of Great Britain is emphatically and
truly styled the fountain of honor. He not only appoints to all
offices, but can create offices. He can confer titles of nobility at
pleasure; and has the disposal of an immense number of church
preferments. There is evidently a great inferiority in the power of
the President, in this particular, to that of the British king; nor is
it equal to that of the governor of New York, if we are to interpret
the meaning of the constitution of the State by the practice which has
obtained under it. The power of appointment is with us lodged in a
council, composed of the governor and four members of the Senate,
chosen by the Assembly. The governor CLAIMS, and has frequently
EXERCISED, the right of nomination, and is ENTITLED to a casting vote
in the appointment. If he really has the right of nominating, his
authority is in this respect equal to that of the President, and
exceeds it in the article of the casting vote. In the national
government, if the Senate should be divided, no appointment could be
made; in the government of New York, if the council should be divided,
the governor can turn the scale, and confirm his own nomination. [3]
If we compare the publicity which must necessarily attend the mode of
appointment by the President and an entire branch of the national
legislature, with the privacy in the mode of appointment by the
governor of New York, closeted in a secret apartment with at most
four, and frequently with only two persons; and if we at the same time
consider how much more easy it must be to influence the small number
of which a council of appointment consists, than the considerable
number of which the national Senate would consist, we cannot hesitate
to pronounce that the power of the chief magistrate of this State, in
the disposition of offices, must, in practice, be greatly superior to
that of the Chief Magistrate of the Union.

Hence it appears that, except as to the concurrent authority of the
President in the article of treaties, it would be difficult to
determine whether that magistrate would, in the aggregate, possess
more or less power than the Governor of New York. And it appears yet
more unequivocally, that there is no pretense for the parallel which
has been attempted between him and the king of Great Britain. But to
render the contrast in this respect still more striking, it may be of
use to throw the principal circumstances of dissimilitude into a
closer group.

The President of the United States would be an officer elected by the
people for FOUR years; the king of Great Britain is a perpetual and
HEREDITARY prince. The one would be amenable to personal punishment
and disgrace; the person of the other is sacred and inviolable. The
one would have a QUALIFIED negative upon the acts of the legislative
body; the other has an ABSOLUTE negative. The one would have a right
to command the military and naval forces of the nation; the other, in
addition to this right, possesses that of DECLARING war, and of
RAISING and REGULATING fleets and armies by his own authority. The one
would have a concurrent power with a branch of the legislature in the
formation of treaties; the other is the SOLE POSSESSOR of the power of
making treaties. The one would have a like concurrent authority in
appointing to offices; the other is the sole author of all
appointments. The one can confer no privileges whatever; the other can
make denizens of aliens, noblemen of commoners; can erect corporations
with all the rights incident to corporate bodies. The one can
prescribe no rules concerning the commerce or currency of the nation;
the other is in several respects the arbiter of commerce, and in this
capacity can establish markets and fairs, can regulate weights and
measures, can lay embargoes for a limited time, can coin money, can
authorize or prohibit the circulation of foreign coin. The one has no
particle of spiritual jurisdiction; the other is the supreme head and
governor of the national church! What answer shall we give to those
who would persuade us that things so unlike resemble each other? The
same that ought to be given to those who tell us that a government,
the whole power of which would be in the hands of the elective and
periodical servants of the people, is an aristocracy, a monarchy, and
a despotism.
THERE is an idea, which is not without its advocates, that a vigorous
Executive is inconsistent with the genius of republican
government. The enlightened well-wishers to this species of government
must at least hope that the supposition is destitute of foundation;
since they can never admit its truth, without at the same time
admitting the condemnation of their own principles. Energy in the
Executive is a leading character in the definition of good
government. It is essential to the protection of the community against
foreign attacks; it is not less essential to the steady administration
of the laws; to the protection of property against those irregular and
high-handed combinations which sometimes interrupt the ordinary course
of justice; to the security of liberty against the enterprises and
assaults of ambition, of faction, and of anarchy. Every man the least
conversant in Roman story, knows how often that republic was obliged
to take refuge in the absolute power of a single man, under the
formidable title of Dictator, as well against the intrigues of
ambitious individuals who aspired to the tyranny, and the seditions of
whole classes of the community whose conduct threatened the existence
of all government, as against the invasions of external enemies who
menaced the conquest and destruction of Rome.

There can be no need, however, to multiply arguments or examples on
this head. A feeble Executive implies a feeble execution of the
government. A feeble execution is but another phrase for a bad
execution; and a government ill executed, whatever it may be in
theory, must be, in practice, a bad government.

Taking it for granted, therefore, that all men of sense will agree in
the necessity of an energetic Executive, it will only remain to
inquire, what are the ingredients which constitute this energy? How
far can they be combined with those other ingredients which constitute
safety in the republican sense? And how far does this combination
characterize the plan which has been reported by the convention?  The
ingredients which constitute energy in the Executive are, first,
unity; secondly, duration; thirdly, an adequate provision for its
support; fourthly, competent powers.

The ingredients which constitute safety in the republican sense are,
first, a due dependence on the people, secondly, a due responsibility.

Those politicians and statesmen who have been the most celebrated for
the soundness of their principles and for the justice of their views,
have declared in favor of a single Executive and a numerous
legislature. They have with great propriety, considered energy as the
most necessary qualification of the former, and have regarded this as
most applicable to power in a single hand, while they have, with equal
propriety, considered the latter as best adapted to deliberation and
wisdom, and best calculated to conciliate the confidence of the people
and to secure their privileges and interests.

That unity is conducive to energy will not be disputed. Decision,
activity, secrecy, and despatch will generally characterize the
proceedings of one man in a much more eminent degree than the
proceedings of any greater number; and in proportion as the number is
increased, these qualities will be diminished.

This unity may be destroyed in two ways: either by vesting the power
in two or more magistrates of equal dignity and authority; or by
vesting it ostensibly in one man, subject, in whole or in part, to the
control and co-operation of others, in the capacity of counsellors to
him. Of the first, the two Consuls of Rome may serve as an example; of
the last, we shall find examples in the constitutions of several of
the States. New York and New Jersey, if I recollect right, are the
only States which have intrusted the executive authority wholly to
single men. [1] Both these methods of destroying the unity of the
Executive have their partisans; but the votaries of an executive
council are the most numerous. They are both liable, if not to equal,
to similar objections, and may in most lights be examined in
conjunction.

The experience of other nations will afford little instruction on this
head. As far, however, as it teaches any thing, it teaches us not to
be enamoured of plurality in the Executive. We have seen that the
Achaeans, on an experiment of two Praetors, were induced to abolish
one. The Roman history records many instances of mischiefs to the
republic from the dissensions between the Consuls, and between the
military Tribunes, who were at times substituted for the Consuls. But
it gives us no specimens of any peculiar advantages derived to the
state from the circumstance of the plurality of those
magistrates. That the dissensions between them were not more frequent
or more fatal, is a matter of astonishment, until we advert to the
singular position in which the republic was almost continually placed,
and to the prudent policy pointed out by the circumstances of the
state, and pursued by the Consuls, of making a division of the
government between them. The patricians engaged in a perpetual
struggle with the plebeians for the preservation of their ancient
authorities and dignities; the Consuls, who were generally chosen out
of the former body, were commonly united by the personal interest they
had in the defense of the privileges of their order. In addition to
this motive of union, after the arms of the republic had considerably
expanded the bounds of its empire, it became an established custom
with the Consuls to divide the administration between themselves by
lot one of them remaining at Rome to govern the city and its environs,
the other taking the command in the more distant provinces. This
expedient must, no doubt, have had great influence in preventing those
collisions and rivalships which might otherwise have embroiled the
peace of the republic.

But quitting the dim light of historical research, attaching ourselves
purely to the dictates of reason and good sense, we shall discover
much greater cause to reject than to approve the idea of plurality in
the Executive, under any modification whatever.

Wherever two or more persons are engaged in any common enterprise or
pursuit, there is always danger of difference of opinion. If it be a
public trust or office, in which they are clothed with equal dignity
and authority, there is peculiar danger of personal emulation and even
animosity. From either, and especially from all these causes, the most
bitter dissensions are apt to spring. Whenever these happen, they
lessen the respectability, weaken the authority, and distract the
plans and operation of those whom they divide. If they should
unfortunately assail the supreme executive magistracy of a country,
consisting of a plurality of persons, they might impede or frustrate
the most important measures of the government, in the most critical
emergencies of the state. And what is still worse, they might split
the community into the most violent and irreconcilable factions,
adhering differently to the different individuals who composed the
magistracy.

Men often oppose a thing, merely because they have had no agency in
planning it, or because it may have been planned by those whom they
dislike. But if they have been consulted, and have happened to
disapprove, opposition then becomes, in their estimation, an
indispensable duty of self-love. They seem to think themselves bound
in honor, and by all the motives of personal infallibility, to defeat
the success of what has been resolved upon contrary to their
sentiments. Men of upright, benevolent tempers have too many
opportunities of remarking, with horror, to what desperate lengths
this disposition is sometimes carried, and how often the great
interests of society are sacrificed to the vanity, to the conceit, and
to the obstinacy of individuals, who have credit enough to make their
passions and their caprices interesting to mankind. Perhaps the
question now before the public may, in its consequences, afford
melancholy proofs of the effects of this despicable frailty, or rather
detestable vice, in the human character.

Upon the principles of a free government, inconveniences from the
source just mentioned must necessarily be submitted to in the
formation of the legislature; but it is unnecessary, and therefore
unwise, to introduce them into the constitution of the Executive. It
is here too that they may be most pernicious. In the legislature,
promptitude of decision is oftener an evil than a benefit. The
differences of opinion, and the jarrings of parties in that department
of the government, though they may sometimes obstruct salutary plans,
yet often promote deliberation and circumspection, and serve to check
excesses in the majority. When a resolution too is once taken, the
opposition must be at an end. That resolution is a law, and resistance
to it punishable. But no favorable circumstances palliate or atone for
the disadvantages of dissension in the executive department. Here,
they are pure and unmixed. There is no point at which they cease to
operate. They serve to embarrass and weaken the execution of the plan
or measure to which they relate, from the first step to the final
conclusion of it. They constantly counteract those qualities in the
Executive which are the most necessary ingredients in its composition,
vigor and expedition, and this without any counterbalancing good. In
the conduct of war, in which the energy of the Executive is the
bulwark of the national security, every thing would be to be
apprehended from its plurality.

It must be confessed that these observations apply with principal
weight to the first case supposed that is, to a plurality of
magistrates of equal dignity and authority a scheme, the advocates for
which are not likely to form a numerous sect; but they apply, though
not with equal, yet with considerable weight to the project of a
council, whose concurrence is made constitutionally necessary to the
operations of the ostensible Executive. An artful cabal in that
council would be able to distract and to enervate the whole system of
administration. If no such cabal should exist, the mere diversity of
views and opinions would alone be sufficient to tincture the exercise
of the executive authority with a spirit of habitual feebleness and
dilatoriness.

But one of the weightiest objections to a plurality in the Executive,
and which lies as much against the last as the first plan, is, that it
tends to conceal faults and destroy responsibility.

Responsibility is of two kinds to censure and to punishment. The first
is the more important of the two, especially in an elective
office. Man, in public trust, will much oftener act in such a manner
as to render him unworthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a
manner as to make him obnoxious to legal punishment. But the
multiplication of the Executive adds to the difficulty of detection in
either case. It often becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations,
to determine on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious
measure, or series of pernicious measures, ought really to fall. It is
shifted from one to another with so much dexterity, and under such
plausible appearances, that the public opinion is left in suspense
about the real author. The circumstances which may have led to any
national miscarriage or misfortune are sometimes so complicated that,
where there are a number of actors who may have had different degrees
and kinds of agency, though we may clearly see upon the whole that
there has been mismanagement, yet it may be impracticable to pronounce
to whose account the evil which may have been incurred is truly
chargeable.

``I was overruled by my council. The council were so divided in their
opinions that it was impossible to obtain any better resolution on the
point.'' These and similar pretexts are constantly at hand, whether
true or false. And who is there that will either take the trouble or
incur the odium, of a strict scrutiny into the secret springs of the
transaction? Should there be found a citizen zealous enough to
undertake the unpromising task, if there happen to be collusion
between the parties concerned, how easy it is to clothe the
circumstances with so much ambiguity, as to render it uncertain what
was the precise conduct of any of those parties?  In the single
instance in which the governor of this State is coupled with a council
that is, in the appointment to offices, we have seen the mischiefs of
it in the view now under consideration. Scandalous appointments to
important offices have been made. Some cases, indeed, have been so
flagrant that ALL PARTIES have agreed in the impropriety of the
thing. When inquiry has been made, the blame has been laid by the
governor on the members of the council, who, on their part, have
charged it upon his nomination; while the people remain altogether at
a loss to determine, by whose influence their interests have been
committed to hands so unqualified and so manifestly improper. In
tenderness to individuals, I forbear to descend to particulars.

It is evident from these considerations, that the plurality of the
Executive tends to deprive the people of the two greatest securities
they can have for the faithful exercise of any delegated power, first,
the restraints of public opinion, which lose their efficacy, as well
on account of the division of the censure attendant on bad measures
among a number, as on account of the uncertainty on whom it ought to
fall; and, secondly, the opportunity of discovering with facility and
clearness the misconduct of the persons they trust, in order either to
their removal from office or to their actual punishment in cases which
admit of it.

In England, the king is a perpetual magistrate; and it is a maxim
which has obtained for the sake of the public peace, that he is
unaccountable for his administration, and his person sacred. Nothing,
therefore, can be wiser in that kingdom, than to annex to the king a
constitutional council, who may be responsible to the nation for the
advice they give. Without this, there would be no responsibility
whatever in the executive department an idea inadmissible in a free
government. But even there the king is not bound by the resolutions of
his council, though they are answerable for the advice they give. He
is the absolute master of his own conduct in the exercise of his
office, and may observe or disregard the counsel given to him at his
sole discretion.

But in a republic, where every magistrate ought to be personally
responsible for his behavior in office the reason which in the British
Constitution dictates the propriety of a council, not only ceases to
apply, but turns against the institution. In the monarchy of Great
Britain, it furnishes a substitute for the prohibited responsibility
of the chief magistrate, which serves in some degree as a hostage to
the national justice for his good behavior. In the American republic,
it would serve to destroy, or would greatly diminish, the intended and
necessary responsibility of the Chief Magistrate himself.

The idea of a council to the Executive, which has so generally
obtained in the State constitutions, has been derived from that maxim
of republican jealousy which considers power as safer in the hands of
a number of men than of a single man. If the maxim should be admitted
to be applicable to the case, I should contend that the advantage on
that side would not counterbalance the numerous disadvantages on the
opposite side. But I do not think the rule at all applicable to the
executive power. I clearly concur in opinion, in this particular, with
a writer whom the celebrated Junius pronounces to be ``deep, solid,
and ingenious,'' that ``the executive power is more easily confined
when it is ONE'' [2]; that it is far more safe there should be a
single object for the jealousy and watchfulness of the people; and, in
a word, that all multiplication of the Executive is rather dangerous
than friendly to liberty.

A little consideration will satisfy us, that the species of security
sought for in the multiplication of the Executive, is
attainable. Numbers must be so great as to render combination
difficult, or they are rather a source of danger than of security. The
united credit and influence of several individuals must be more
formidable to liberty, than the credit and influence of either of them
separately. When power, therefore, is placed in the hands of so small
a number of men, as to admit of their interests and views being easily
combined in a common enterprise, by an artful leader, it becomes more
liable to abuse, and more dangerous when abused, than if it be lodged
in the hands of one man; who, from the very circumstance of his being
alone, will be more narrowly watched and more readily suspected, and
who cannot unite so great a mass of influence as when he is associated
with others. The Decemvirs of Rome, whose name denotes their number
[3], were more to be dreaded in their usurpation than any ONE of them
would have been. No person would think of proposing an Executive much
more numerous than that body; from six to a dozen have been suggested
for the number of the council. The extreme of these numbers, is not
too great for an easy combination; and from such a combination America
would have more to fear, than from the ambition of any single
individual. A council to a magistrate, who is himself responsible for
what he does, are generally nothing better than a clog upon his good
intentions, are often the instruments and accomplices of his bad and
are almost always a cloak to his faults.

I forbear to dwell upon the subject of expense; though it be evident
that if the council should be numerous enough to answer the principal
end aimed at by the institution, the salaries of the members, who must
be drawn from their homes to reside at the seat of government, would
form an item in the catalogue of public expenditures too serious to be
incurred for an object of equivocal utility. I will only add that,
prior to the appearance of the Constitution, I rarely met with an
intelligent man from any of the States, who did not admit, as the
result of experience, that the UNITY of the executive of this State
was one of the best of the distinguishing features of our
constitution.
DURATION in office has been mentioned as the second requisite to the
energy of the Executive authority. This has relation to two objects:
to the personal firmness of the executive magistrate, in the
employment of his constitutional powers; and to the stability of the
system of administration which may have been adopted under his
auspices. With regard to the first, it must be evident, that the
longer the duration in office, the greater will be the probability of
obtaining so important an advantage. It is a general principle of
human nature, that a man will be interested in whatever he possesses,
in proportion to the firmness or precariousness of the tenure by which
he holds it; will be less attached to what he holds by a momentary or
uncertain title, than to what he enjoys by a durable or certain title;
and, of course, will be willing to risk more for the sake of the one,
than for the sake of the other. This remark is not less applicable to
a political privilege, or honor, or trust, than to any article of
ordinary property. The inference from it is, that a man acting in the
capacity of chief magistrate, under a consciousness that in a very
short time he MUST lay down his office, will be apt to feel himself
too little interested in it to hazard any material censure or
perplexity, from the independent exertion of his powers, or from
encountering the ill-humors, however transient, which may happen to
prevail, either in a considerable part of the society itself, or even
in a predominant faction in the legislative body. If the case should
only be, that he MIGHT lay it down, unless continued by a new choice,
and if he should be desirous of being continued, his wishes,
conspiring with his fears, would tend still more powerfully to corrupt
his integrity, or debase his fortitude. In either case, feebleness and
irresolution must be the characteristics of the station.

There are some who would be inclined to regard the servile pliancy of
the Executive to a prevailing current, either in the community or in
the legislature, as its best recommendation. But such men entertain
very crude notions, as well of the purposes for which government was
instituted, as of the true means by which the public happiness may be
promoted. The republican principle demands that the deliberate sense
of the community should govern the conduct of those to whom they
intrust the management of their affairs; but it does not require an
unqualified complaisance to every sudden breeze of passion, or to
every transient impulse which the people may receive from the arts of
men, who flatter their prejudices to betray their interests. It is a
just observation, that the people commonly INTEND the PUBLIC
GOOD. This often applies to their very errors. But their good sense
would despise the adulator who should pretend that they always REASON
RIGHT about the MEANS of promoting it. They know from experience that
they sometimes err; and the wonder is that they so seldom err as they
do, beset, as they continually are, by the wiles of parasites and
sycophants, by the snares of the ambitious, the avaricious, the
desperate, by the artifices of men who possess their confidence more
than they deserve it, and of those who seek to possess rather than to
deserve it. When occasions present themselves, in which the interests
of the people are at variance with their inclinations, it is the duty
of the persons whom they have appointed to be the guardians of those
interests, to withstand the temporary delusion, in order to give them
time and opportunity for more cool and sedate reflection. Instances
might be cited in which a conduct of this kind has saved the people
from very fatal consequences of their own mistakes, and has procured
lasting monuments of their gratitude to the men who had courage and
magnanimity enough to serve them at the peril of their displeasure.

But however inclined we might be to insist upon an unbounded
complaisance in the Executive to the inclinations of the people, we
can with no propriety contend for a like complaisance to the humors of
the legislature. The latter may sometimes stand in opposition to the
former, and at other times the people may be entirely neutral. In
either supposition, it is certainly desirable that the Executive
should be in a situation to dare to act his own opinion with vigor and
decision.

The same rule which teaches the propriety of a partition between the
various branches of power, teaches us likewise that this partition
ought to be so contrived as to render the one independent of the
other. To what purpose separate the executive or the judiciary from
the legislative, if both the executive and the judiciary are so
constituted as to be at the absolute devotion of the legislative? Such
a separation must be merely nominal, and incapable of producing the
ends for which it was established. It is one thing to be subordinate
to the laws, and another to be dependent on the legislative body. The
first comports with, the last violates, the fundamental principles of
good government; and, whatever may be the forms of the Constitution,
unites all power in the same hands. The tendency of the legislative
authority to absorb every other, has been fully displayed and
illustrated by examples in some preceding numbers. In governments
purely republican, this tendency is almost irresistible. The
representatives of the people, in a popular assembly, seem sometimes
to fancy that they are the people themselves, and betray strong
symptoms of impatience and disgust at the least sign of opposition
from any other quarter; as if the exercise of its rights, by either
the executive or judiciary, were a breach of their privilege and an
outrage to their dignity. They often appear disposed to exert an
imperious control over the other departments; and as they commonly
have the people on their side, they always act with such momentum as
to make it very difficult for the other members of the government to
maintain the balance of the Constitution.

It may perhaps be asked, how the shortness of the duration in office
can affect the independence of the Executive on the legislature,
unless the one were possessed of the power of appointing or displacing
the other. One answer to this inquiry may be drawn from the principle
already remarked that is, from the slender interest a man is apt to
take in a short-lived advantage, and the little inducement it affords
him to expose himself, on account of it, to any considerable
inconvenience or hazard. Another answer, perhaps more obvious, though
not more conclusive, will result from the consideration of the
influence of the legislative body over the people; which might be
employed to prevent the re-election of a man who, by an upright
resistance to any sinister project of that body, should have made
himself obnoxious to its resentment.

It may be asked also, whether a duration of four years would answer
the end proposed; and if it would not, whether a less period, which
would at least be recommended by greater security against ambitious
designs, would not, for that reason, be preferable to a longer period,
which was, at the same time, too short for the purpose of inspiring
the desired firmness and independence of the magistrate.

It cannot be affirmed, that a duration of four years, or any other
limited duration, would completely answer the end proposed; but it
would contribute towards it in a degree which would have a material
influence upon the spirit and character of the government. Between the
commencement and termination of such a period, there would always be a
considerable interval, in which the prospect of annihilation would be
sufficiently remote, not to have an improper effect upon the conduct
of a man indued with a tolerable portion of fortitude; and in which he
might reasonably promise himself, that there would be time enough
before it arrived, to make the community sensible of the propriety of
the measures he might incline to pursue. Though it be probable that,
as he approached the moment when the public were, by a new election,
to signify their sense of his conduct, his confidence, and with it his
firmness, would decline; yet both the one and the other would derive
support from the opportunities which his previous continuance in the
station had afforded him, of establishing himself in the esteem and
good-will of his constituents. He might, then, hazard with safety, in
proportion to the proofs he had given of his wisdom and integrity, and
to the title he had acquired to the respect and attachment of his
fellow-citizens. As, on the one hand, a duration of four years will
contribute to the firmness of the Executive in a sufficient degree to
render it a very valuable ingredient in the composition; so, on the
other, it is not enough to justify any alarm for the public
liberty. If a British House of Commons, from the most feeble
beginnings, FROM THE MERE POWER OF ASSENTING OR DISAGREEING TO THE
IMPOSITION OF A NEW TAX, have, by rapid strides, reduced the
prerogatives of the crown and the privileges of the nobility within
the limits they conceived to be compatible with the principles of a
free government, while they raised themselves to the rank and
consequence of a coequal branch of the legislature; if they have been
able, in one instance, to abolish both the royalty and the
aristocracy, and to overturn all the ancient establishments, as well
in the Church as State; if they have been able, on a recent occasion,
to make the monarch tremble at the prospect of an innovation [1]
attempted by them, what would be to be feared from an elective
magistrate of four years' duration, with the confined authorities of a
President of the United States? What, but that he might be unequal to
the task which the Constitution assigns him? I shall only add, that if
his duration be such as to leave a doubt of his firmness, that doubt
is inconsistent with a jealousy of his encroachments.
THE administration of government, in its largest sense, comprehends
all the operations of the body politic, whether legislative,
executive, or judiciary; but in its most usual, and perhaps its most
precise signification. it is limited to executive details, and falls
peculiarly within the province of the executive department. The actual
conduct of foreign negotiations, the preparatory plans of finance, the
application and disbursement of the public moneys in conformity to the
general appropriations of the legislature, the arrangement of the army
and navy, the directions of the operations of war, these, and other
matters of a like nature, constitute what seems to be most properly
understood by the administration of government. The persons,
therefore, to whose immediate management these different matters are
committed, ought to be considered as the assistants or deputies of the
chief magistrate, and on this account, they ought to derive their
offices from his appointment, at least from his nomination, and ought
to be subject to his superintendence. This view of the subject will at
once suggest to us the intimate connection between the duration of the
executive magistrate in office and the stability of the system of
administration. To reverse and undo what has been done by a
predecessor, is very often considered by a successor as the best proof
he can give of his own capacity and desert; and in addition to this
propensity, where the alteration has been the result of public choice,
the person substituted is warranted in supposing that the dismission
of his predecessor has proceeded from a dislike to his measures; and
that the less he resembles him, the more he will recommend himself to
the favor of his constituents. These considerations, and the influence
of personal confidences and attachments, would be likely to induce
every new President to promote a change of men to fill the subordinate
stations; and these causes together could not fail to occasion a
disgraceful and ruinous mutability in the administration of the
government.

With a positive duration of considerable extent, I connect the
circumstance of re-eligibility. The first is necessary to give to the
officer himself the inclination and the resolution to act his part
well, and to the community time and leisure to observe the tendency of
his measures, and thence to form an experimental estimate of their
merits. The last is necessary to enable the people, when they see
reason to approve of his conduct, to continue him in his station, in
order to prolong the utility of his talents and virtues, and to secure
to the government the advantage of permanency in a wise system of
administration.

Nothing appears more plausible at first sight, nor more ill-founded
upon close inspection, than a scheme which in relation to the present
point has had some respectable advocates, I mean that of continuing
the chief magistrate in office for a certain time, and then excluding
him from it, either for a limited period or forever after. This
exclusion, whether temporary or perpetual, would have nearly the same
effects, and these effects would be for the most part rather
pernicious than salutary.

One ill effect of the exclusion would be a diminution of the
inducements to good behavior. There are few men who would not feel
much less zeal in the discharge of a duty when they were conscious
that the advantages of the station with which it was connected must be
relinquished at a determinate period, than when they were permitted to
entertain a hope of OBTAINING, by MERITING, a continuance of
them. This position will not be disputed so long as it is admitted
that the desire of reward is one of the strongest incentives of human
conduct; or that the best security for the fidelity of mankind is to
make their interests coincide with their duty. Even the love of fame,
the ruling passion of the noblest minds, which would prompt a man to
plan and undertake extensive and arduous enterprises for the public
benefit, requiring considerable time to mature and perfect them, if he
could flatter himself with the prospect of being allowed to finish
what he had begun, would, on the contrary, deter him from the
undertaking, when he foresaw that he must quit the scene before he
could accomplish the work, and must commit that, together with his own
reputation, to hands which might be unequal or unfriendly to the
task. The most to be expected from the generality of men, in such a
situation, is the negative merit of not doing harm, instead of the
positive merit of doing good.

Another ill effect of the exclusion would be the temptation to sordid
views, to peculation, and, in some instances, to usurpation. An
avaricious man, who might happen to fill the office, looking forward
to a time when he must at all events yield up the emoluments he
enjoyed, would feel a propensity, not easy to be resisted by such a
man, to make the best use of the opportunity he enjoyed while it
lasted, and might not scruple to have recourse to the most corrupt
expedients to make the harvest as abundant as it was transitory;
though the same man, probably, with a different prospect before him,
might content himself with the regular perquisites of his situation,
and might even be unwilling to risk the consequences of an abuse of
his opportunities. His avarice might be a guard upon his avarice. Add
to this that the same man might be vain or ambitious, as well as
avaricious. And if he could expect to prolong his honors by his good
conduct, he might hesitate to sacrifice his appetite for them to his
appetite for gain. But with the prospect before him of approaching an
inevitable annihilation, his avarice would be likely to get the
victory over his caution, his vanity, or his ambition.

An ambitious man, too, when he found himself seated on the summit of
his country's honors, when he looked forward to the time at which he
must descend from the exalted eminence for ever, and reflected that no
exertion of merit on his part could save him from the unwelcome
reverse; such a man, in such a situation, would be much more violently
tempted to embrace a favorable conjuncture for attempting the
prolongation of his power, at every personal hazard, than if he had
the probability of answering the same end by doing his duty.

Would it promote the peace of the community, or the stability of the
government to have half a dozen men who had had credit enough to be
raised to the seat of the supreme magistracy, wandering among the
people like discontented ghosts, and sighing for a place which they
were destined never more to possess?  A third ill effect of the
exclusion would be, the depriving the community of the advantage of
the experience gained by the chief magistrate in the exercise of his
office. That experience is the parent of wisdom, is an adage the truth
of which is recognized by the wisest as well as the simplest of
mankind. What more desirable or more essential than this quality in
the governors of nations? Where more desirable or more essential than
in the first magistrate of a nation? Can it be wise to put this
desirable and essential quality under the ban of the Constitution, and
to declare that the moment it is acquired, its possessor shall be
compelled to abandon the station in which it was acquired, and to
which it is adapted? This, nevertheless, is the precise import of all
those regulations which exclude men from serving their country, by the
choice of their fellow citizens, after they have by a course of
service fitted themselves for doing it with a greater degree of
utility.

A fourth ill effect of the exclusion would be the banishing men from
stations in which, in certain emergencies of the state, their presence
might be of the greatest moment to the public interest or
safety. There is no nation which has not, at one period or another,
experienced an absolute necessity of the services of particular men in
particular situations; perhaps it would not be too strong to say, to
the preservation of its political existence. How unwise, therefore,
must be every such self-denying ordinance as serves to prohibit a
nation from making use of its own citizens in the manner best suited
to its exigencies and circumstances! Without supposing the personal
essentiality of the man, it is evident that a change of the chief
magistrate, at the breaking out of a war, or at any similar crisis,
for another, even of equal merit, would at all times be detrimental to
the community, inasmuch as it would substitute inexperience to
experience, and would tend to unhinge and set afloat the already
settled train of the administration.

A fifth ill effect of the exclusion would be, that it would operate as
a constitutional interdiction of stability in the administration. By
NECESSITATING a change of men, in the first office of the nation, it
would necessitate a mutability of measures. It is not generally to be
expected, that men will vary and measures remain uniform. The contrary
is the usual course of things. And we need not be apprehensive that
there will be too much stability, while there is even the option of
changing; nor need we desire to prohibit the people from continuing
their confidence where they think it may be safely placed, and where,
by constancy on their part, they may obviate the fatal inconveniences
of fluctuating councils and a variable policy.

These are some of the disadvantages which would flow from the
principle of exclusion. They apply most forcibly to the scheme of a
perpetual exclusion; but when we consider that even a partial
exclusion would always render the readmission of the person a remote
and precarious object, the observations which have been made will
apply nearly as fully to one case as to the other.

What are the advantages promised to counterbalance these
disadvantages? They are represented to be: 1st, greater independence
in the magistrate; 2d, greater security to the people. Unless the
exclusion be perpetual, there will be no pretense to infer the first
advantage. But even in that case, may he have no object beyond his
present station, to which he may sacrifice his independence? May he
have no connections, no friends, for whom he may sacrifice it? May he
not be less willing by a firm conduct, to make personal enemies, when
he acts under the impression that a time is fast approaching, on the
arrival of which he not only MAY, but MUST, be exposed to their
resentments, upon an equal, perhaps upon an inferior, footing? It is
not an easy point to determine whether his independence would be most
promoted or impaired by such an arrangement.

As to the second supposed advantage, there is still greater reason to
entertain doubts concerning it. If the exclusion were to be perpetual,
a man of irregular ambition, of whom alone there could be reason in
any case to entertain apprehension, would, with infinite reluctance,
yield to the necessity of taking his leave forever of a post in which
his passion for power and pre-eminence had acquired the force of
habit. And if he had been fortunate or adroit enough to conciliate the
good-will of the people, he might induce them to consider as a very
odious and unjustifiable restraint upon themselves, a provision which
was calculated to debar them of the right of giving a fresh proof of
their attachment to a favorite. There may be conceived circumstances
in which this disgust of the people, seconding the thwarted ambition
of such a favorite, might occasion greater danger to liberty, than
could ever reasonably be dreaded from the possibility of a
perpetuation in office, by the voluntary suffrages of the community,
exercising a constitutional privilege.

There is an excess of refinement in the idea of disabling the people
to continue in office men who had entitled themselves, in their
opinion, to approbation and confidence; the advantages of which are at
best speculative and equivocal, and are overbalanced by disadvantages
far more certain and decisive.
THE third ingredient towards constituting the vigor of the executive
authority, is an adequate provision for its support. It is evident
that, without proper attention to this article, the separation of the
executive from the legislative department would be merely nominal and
nugatory. The legislature, with a discretionary power over the salary
and emoluments of the Chief Magistrate, could render him as obsequious
to their will as they might think proper to make him. They might, in
most cases, either reduce him by famine, or tempt him by largesses, to
surrender at discretion his judgment to their inclinations. These
expressions, taken in all the latitude of the terms, would no doubt
convey more than is intended. There are men who could neither be
distressed nor won into a sacrifice of their duty; but this stern
virtue is the growth of few soils; and in the main it will be found
that a power over a man's support is a power over his will. If it were
necessary to confirm so plain a truth by facts, examples would not be
wanting, even in this country, of the intimidation or seduction of the
Executive by the terrors or allurements of the pecuniary arrangements
of the legislative body.

It is not easy, therefore, to commend too highly the judicious
attention which has been paid to this subject in the proposed
Constitution. It is there provided that "The President of the United
States shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation
WHICH SHALL NEITHER BE INCREASED NOR DIMINISHED DURING THE PERIOD FOR
WHICH HE SHALL HAVE BEEN ELECTED; and he SHALL NOT RECEIVE WITHIN THAT
PERIOD ANY OTHER EMOLUMENT from the United States, or any of them." It
is impossible to imagine any provision which would have been more
eligible than this. The legislature, on the appointment of a
President, is once for all to declare what shall be the compensation
for his services during the time for which he shall have been
elected. This done, they will have no power to alter it, either by
increase or diminution, till a new period of service by a new election
commences. They can neither weaken his fortitude by operating on his
necessities, nor corrupt his integrity by appealing to his
avarice. Neither the Union, nor any of its members, will be at liberty
to give, nor will he be at liberty to receive, any other emolument
than that which may have been determined by the first act. He can, of
course, have no pecuniary inducement to renounce or desert the
independence intended for him by the Constitution.

The last of the requisites to energy, which have been enumerated, are
competent powers. Let us proceed to consider those which are proposed
to be vested in the President of the United States.

The first thing that offers itself to our observation, is the
qualified negative of the President upon the acts or resolutions of
the two houses of the legislature; or, in other words, his power of
returning all bills with objections, to have the effect of preventing
their becoming laws, unless they should afterwards be ratified by two
thirds of each of the component members of the legislative body.

The propensity of the legislative department to intrude upon the
rights, and to absorb the powers, of the other departments, has been
already suggested and repeated; the insufficiency of a mere parchment
delineation of the boundaries of each, has also been remarked upon;
and the necessity of furnishing each with constitutional arms for its
own defense, has been inferred and proved. From these clear and
indubitable principles results the propriety of a negative, either
absolute or qualified, in the Executive, upon the acts of the
legislative branches. Without the one or the other, the former would
be absolutely unable to defend himself against the depredations of the
latter. He might gradually be stripped of his authorities by
successive resolutions, or annihilated by a single vote. And in the
one mode or the other, the legislative and executive powers might
speedily come to be blended in the same hands. If even no propensity
had ever discovered itself in the legislative body to invade the
rights of the Executive, the rules of just reasoning and theoretic
propriety would of themselves teach us, that the one ought not to be
left to the mercy of the other, but ought to possess a constitutional
and effectual power of self defense.

But the power in question has a further use. It not only serves as a
shield to the Executive, but it furnishes an additional security
against the enaction of improper laws. It establishes a salutary check
upon the legislative body, calculated to guard the community against
the effects of faction, precipitancy, or of any impulse unfriendly to
the public good, which may happen to influence a majority of that
body.

The propriety of a negative has, upon some occasions, been combated by
an observation, that it was not to be presumed a single man would
possess more virtue and wisdom than a number of men; and that unless
this presumption should be entertained, it would be improper to give
the executive magistrate any species of control over the legislative
body.

But this observation, when examined, will appear rather specious than
solid. The propriety of the thing does not turn upon the supposition
of superior wisdom or virtue in the Executive, but upon the
supposition that the legislature will not be infallible; that the love
of power may sometimes betray it into a disposition to encroach upon
the rights of other members of the government; that a spirit of
faction may sometimes pervert its deliberations; that impressions of
the moment may sometimes hurry it into measures which itself, on
maturer reflection, would condemn. The primary inducement to
conferring the power in question upon the Executive is, to enable him
to defend himself; the secondary one is to increase the chances in
favor of the community against the passing of bad laws, through haste,
inadvertence, or design. The oftener the measure is brought under
examination, the greater the diversity in the situations of those who
are to examine it, the less must be the danger of those errors which
flow from want of due deliberation, or of those missteps which proceed
from the contagion of some common passion or interest. It is far less
probable, that culpable views of any kind should infect all the parts
of the government at the same moment and in relation to the same
object, than that they should by turns govern and mislead every one of
them.

It may perhaps be said that the power of preventing bad laws includes
that of preventing good ones; and may be used to the one purpose as
well as to the other. But this objection will have little weight with
those who can properly estimate the mischiefs of that inconstancy and
mutability in the laws, which form the greatest blemish in the
character and genius of our governments. They will consider every
institution calculated to restrain the excess of law-making, and to
keep things in the same state in which they happen to be at any given
period, as much more likely to do good than harm; because it is
favorable to greater stability in the system of legislation. The
injury which may possibly be done by defeating a few good laws, will
be amply compensated by the advantage of preventing a number of bad
ones.

Nor is this all. The superior weight and influence of the legislative
body in a free government, and the hazard to the Executive in a trial
of strength with that body, afford a satisfactory security that the
negative would generally be employed with great caution; and there
would oftener be room for a charge of timidity than of rashness in the
exercise of it. A king of Great Britain, with all his train of
sovereign attributes, and with all the influence he draws from a
thousand sources, would, at this day, hesitate to put a negative upon
the joint resolutions of the two houses of Parliament. He would not
fail to exert the utmost resources of that influence to strangle a
measure disagreeable to him, in its progress to the throne, to avoid
being reduced to the dilemma of permitting it to take effect, or of
risking the displeasure of the nation by an opposition to the sense of
the legislative body. Nor is it probable, that he would ultimately
venture to exert his prerogatives, but in a case of manifest
propriety, or extreme necessity. All well-informed men in that kingdom
will accede to the justness of this remark. A very considerable period
has elapsed since the negative of the crown has been exercised.

If a magistrate so powerful and so well fortified as a British
monarch, would have scruples about the exercise of the power under
consideration, how much greater caution may be reasonably expected in
a President of the United States, clothed for the short period of four
years with the executive authority of a government wholly and purely
republican?  It is evident that there would be greater danger of his
not using his power when necessary, than of his using it too often, or
too much. An argument, indeed, against its expediency, has been drawn
from this very source. It has been represented, on this account, as a
power odious in appearance, useless in practice. But it will not
follow, that because it might be rarely exercised, it would never be
exercised. In the case for which it is chiefly designed, that of an
immediate attack upon the constitutional rights of the Executive, or
in a case in which the public good was evidently and palpably
sacrificed, a man of tolerable firmness would avail himself of his
constitutional means of defense, and would listen to the admonitions
of duty and responsibility. In the former supposition, his fortitude
would be stimulated by his immediate interest in the power of his
office; in the latter, by the probability of the sanction of his
constituents, who, though they would naturally incline to the
legislative body in a doubtful case, would hardly suffer their
partiality to delude them in a very plain case. I speak now with an
eye to a magistrate possessing only a common share of firmness. There
are men who, under any circumstances, will have the courage to do
their duty at every hazard.

But the convention have pursued a mean in this business, which will
both facilitate the exercise of the power vested in this respect in
the executive magistrate, and make its efficacy to depend on the sense
of a considerable part of the legislative body. Instead of an absolute
negative, it is proposed to give the Executive the qualified negative
already described. This is a power which would be much more readily
exercised than the other. A man who might be afraid to defeat a law by
his single VETO, might not scruple to return it for reconsideration;
subject to being finally rejected only in the event of more than one
third of each house concurring in the sufficiency of his
objections. He would be encouraged by the reflection, that if his
opposition should prevail, it would embark in it a very respectable
proportion of the legislative body, whose influence would be united
with his in supporting the propriety of his conduct in the public
opinion. A direct and categorical negative has something in the
appearance of it more harsh, and more apt to irritate, than the mere
suggestion of argumentative objections to be approved or disapproved
by those to whom they are addressed. In proportion as it would be less
apt to offend, it would be more apt to be exercised; and for this very
reason, it may in practice be found more effectual. It is to be hoped
that it will not often happen that improper views will govern so large
a proportion as two thirds of both branches of the legislature at the
same time; and this, too, in spite of the counterposing weight of the
Executive. It is at any rate far less probable that this should be the
case, than that such views should taint the resolutions and conduct of
a bare majority. A power of this nature in the Executive, will often
have a silent and unperceived, though forcible, operation. When men,
engaged in unjustifiable pursuits, are aware that obstructions may
come from a quarter which they cannot control, they will often be
restrained by the bare apprehension of opposition, from doing what
they would with eagerness rush into, if no such external impediments
were to be feared.

This qualified negative, as has been elsewhere remarked, is in this
State vested in a council, consisting of the governor, with the
chancellor and judges of the Supreme Court, or any two of them. It has
been freely employed upon a variety of occasions, and frequently with
success. And its utility has become so apparent, that persons who, in
compiling the Constitution, were violent opposers of it, have from
experience become its declared admirers. [1] I have in another place
remarked, that the convention, in the formation of this part of their
plan, had departed from the model of the constitution of this State,
in favor of that of Massachusetts. Two strong reasons may be imagined
for this preference. One is that the judges, who are to be the
interpreters of the law, might receive an improper bias, from having
given a previous opinion in their revisionary capacities; the other is
that by being often associated with the Executive, they might be
induced to embark too far in the political views of that magistrate,
and thus a dangerous combination might by degrees be cemented between
the executive and judiciary departments. It is impossible to keep the
judges too distinct from every other avocation than that of expounding
the laws. It is peculiarly dangerous to place them in a situation to
be either corrupted or influenced by the Executive.
