AFTER an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency of the subsisting
federal government, you are called upon to deliberate on a new
Constitution for the United States of America. The subject speaks its
own importance; comprehending in its consequences nothing less than
the existence of the UNION, the safety and welfare of the parts of
which it is composed, the fate of an empire in many respects the most
interesting in the world. It has been frequently remarked that it
seems to have been reserved to the people of this country, by their
conduct and example, to decide the important question, whether
societies of men are really capable or not of establishing good
government from reflection and choice, or whether they are forever
destined to depend for their political constitutions on accident and
force. If there be any truth in the remark, the crisis at which we are
arrived may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that
decision is to be made; and a wrong election of the part we shall act
may, in this view, deserve to be considered as the general misfortune
of mankind.

This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of
patriotism, to heighten the solicitude which all considerate and good
men must feel for the event. Happy will it be if our choice should be
directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests, unperplexed
and unbiased by considerations not connected with the public good. But
this is a thing more ardently to be wished than seriously to be
expected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects too many
particular interests, innovates upon too many local institutions, not
to involve in its discussion a variety of objects foreign to its
merits, and of views, passions and prejudices little favorable to the
discovery of truth.

Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new Constitution
will have to encounter may readily be distinguished the obvious
interest of a certain class of men in every State to resist all
changes which may hazard a diminution of the power, emolument, and
consequence of the offices they hold under the State establishments;
and the perverted ambition of another class of men, who will either
hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of their country, or
will flatter themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the
subdivision of the empire into several partial confederacies than from
its union under one government.

It is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this
nature. I am well aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve
indiscriminately the opposition of any set of men (merely because
their situations might subject them to suspicion) into interested or
ambitious views. Candor will oblige us to admit that even such men may
be actuated by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted that much
of the opposition which has made its appearance, or may hereafter make
its appearance, will spring from sources, blameless at least, if not
respectable--the honest errors of minds led astray by preconceived
jealousies and fears. So numerous indeed and so powerful are the
causes which serve to give a false bias to the judgment, that we, upon
many occasions, see wise and good men on the wrong as well as on the
right side of questions of the first magnitude to society. This
circumstance, if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of
moderation to those who are ever so much persuaded of their being in
the right in any controversy. And a further reason for caution, in
this respect, might be drawn from the reflection that we are not
always sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced by purer
principles than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal
animosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable
than these, are apt to operate as well upon those who support as those
who oppose the right side of a question. Were there not even these
inducements to moderation, nothing could be more ill-judged than that
intolerant spirit which has, at all times, characterized political
parties. For in politics, as in religion, it is equally absurd to aim
at making proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can rarely
be cured by persecution.

And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have
already sufficient indications that it will happen in this as in all
former cases of great national discussion. A torrent of angry and
malignant passions will be let loose. To judge from the conduct of the
opposite parties, we shall be led to conclude that they will mutually
hope to evince the justness of their opinions, and to increase the
number of their converts by the loudness of their declamations and the
bitterness of their invectives. An enlightened zeal for the energy and
efficiency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a
temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the principles of
liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to the rights of the
people, which is more commonly the fault of the head than of the
heart, will be represented as mere pretense and artifice, the stale
bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be
forgotten, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of
love, and that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected
with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust. On the other hand, it
will be equally forgotten that the vigor of government is essential to
the security of liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and
well-informed judgment, their interest can never be separated; and
that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of
zeal for the rights of the people than under the forbidden appearance
of zeal for the firmness and efficiency of government. History will
teach us that the former has been found a much more certain road to
the introduction of despotism than the latter, and that of those men
who have overturned the liberties of republics, the greatest number
have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the people;
commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants.

In the course of the preceding observations, I have had an eye, my
fellow-citizens, to putting you upon your guard against all attempts,
from whatever quarter, to influence your decision in a matter of the
utmost moment to your welfare, by any impressions other than those
which may result from the evidence of truth. You will, no doubt, at
the same time, have collected from the general scope of them, that
they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new
Constitution. Yes, my countrymen, I own to you that, after having
given it an attentive consideration, I am clearly of opinion it is
your interest to adopt it. I am convinced that this is the safest
course for your liberty, your dignity, and your happiness. I affect
not reserves which I do not feel. I will not amuse you with an
appearance of deliberation when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge
to you my convictions, and I will freely lay before you the reasons on
which they are founded. The consciousness of good intentions disdains
ambiguity. I shall not, however, multiply professions on this head. My
motives must remain in the depository of my own breast. My arguments
will be open to all, and may be judged of by all. They shall at least
be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace the cause of truth.

I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following interesting
particulars: THE UTILITY OF THE UNION TO YOUR POLITICAL PROSPERITY THE
INSUFFICIENCY OF THE PRESENT CONFEDERATION TO PRESERVE THAT UNION THE
NECESSITY OF A GOVERNMENT AT LEAST EQUALLY ENERGETIC WITH THE ONE
PROPOSED, TO THE ATTAINMENT OF THIS OBJECT THE CONFORMITY OF THE
PROPOSED CONSTITUTION TO THE TRUE PRINCIPLES OF REPUBLICAN GOVERNMENT
ITS ANALOGY TO YOUR OWN STATE CONSTITUTION and lastly, THE ADDITIONAL
SECURITY WHICH ITS ADOPTION WILL AFFORD TO THE PRESERVATION OF THAT
SPECIES OF GOVERNMENT, TO LIBERTY, AND TO PROPERTY.

In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor to give a
satisfactory answer to all the objections which shall have made their
appearance, that may seem to have any claim to your attention.

It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to prove the
utility of the UNION, a point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts
of the great body of the people in every State, and one, which it may
be imagined, has no adversaries. But the fact is, that we already hear
it whispered in the private circles of those who oppose the new
Constitution, that the thirteen States are of too great extent for any
general system, and that we must of necessity resort to separate
confederacies of distinct portions of the whole. [1] This doctrine
will, in all probability, be gradually propagated, till it has
votaries enough to countenance an open avowal of it. For nothing can
be more evident, to those who are able to take an enlarged view of the
subject, than the alternative of an adoption of the new Constitution
or a dismemberment of the Union. It will therefore be of use to begin
by examining the advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the
probable dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its
dissolution. This shall accordingly constitute the subject of my next
address.
THE three last numbers of this paper have been dedicated to an
enumeration of the dangers to which we should be exposed, in a state
of disunion, from the arms and arts of foreign nations. I shall now
proceed to delineate dangers of a different and, perhaps, still more
alarming kind--those which will in all probability flow from
dissensions between the States themselves, and from domestic factions
and convulsions. These have been already in some instances slightly
anticipated; but they deserve a more particular and more full
investigation.

A man must be far gone in Utopian speculations who can seriously doubt
that, if these States should either be wholly disunited, or only
united in partial confederacies, the subdivisions into which they
might be thrown would have frequent and violent contests with each
other. To presume a want of motives for such contests as an argument
against their existence, would be to forget that men are ambitious,
vindictive, and rapacious. To look for a continuation of harmony
between a number of independent, unconnected sovereignties in the same
neighborhood, would be to disregard the uniform course of human
events, and to set at defiance the accumulated experience of ages.

The causes of hostility among nations are innumerable. There are some
which have a general and almost constant operation upon the collective
bodies of society. Of this description are the love of power or the
desire of pre-eminence and dominion--the jealousy of power, or the
desire of equality and safety. There are others which have a more
circumscribed though an equally operative influence within their
spheres. Such are the rivalships and competitions of commerce between
commercial nations. And there are others, not less numerous than
either of the former, which take their origin entirely in private
passions; in the attachments, enmities, interests, hopes, and fears of
leading individuals in the communities of which they are members. Men
of this class, whether the favorites of a king or of a people, have in
too many instances abused the confidence they possessed; and assuming
the pretext of some public motive, have not scrupled to sacrifice the
national tranquillity to personal advantage or personal gratification.

The celebrated Pericles, in compliance with the resentment of a
prostitute, [1] at the expense of much of the blood and treasure of
his countrymen, attacked, vanquished, and destroyed the city of the
SAMNIANS. The same man, stimulated by private pique against the
MEGARENSIANS, [2] another nation of Greece, or to avoid a prosecution
with which he was threatened as an accomplice of a supposed theft of
the statuary Phidias, [3] or to get rid of the accusations prepared to
be brought against him for dissipating the funds of the state in the
purchase of popularity, [4] or from a combination of all these causes,
was the primitive author of that famous and fatal war, distinguished
in the Grecian annals by the name of the PELOPONNESIAN war; which,
after various vicissitudes, intermissions, and renewals, terminated in
the ruin of the Athenian commonwealth.

The ambitious cardinal, who was prime minister to Henry VIII.,
permitting his vanity to aspire to the triple crown, [5] entertained
hopes of succeeding in the acquisition of that splendid prize by the
influence of the Emperor Charles V. To secure the favor and interest
of this enterprising and powerful monarch, he precipitated England
into a war with France, contrary to the plainest dictates of policy,
and at the hazard of the safety and independence, as well of the
kingdom over which he presided by his counsels, as of Europe in
general. For if there ever was a sovereign who bid fair to realize the
project of universal monarchy, it was the Emperor Charles V., of whose
intrigues Wolsey was at once the instrument and the dupe.

The influence which the bigotry of one female, [6] the petulance of
another, [7] and the cabals of a third, [8] had in the contemporary
policy, ferments, and pacifications, of a considerable part of Europe,
are topics that have been too often descanted upon not to be generally
known.

To multiply examples of the agency of personal considerations in the
production of great national events, either foreign or domestic,
according to their direction, would be an unnecessary waste of
time. Those who have but a superficial acquaintance with the sources
from which they are to be drawn, will themselves recollect a variety
of instances; and those who have a tolerable knowledge of human nature
will not stand in need of such lights to form their opinion either of
the reality or extent of that agency. Perhaps, however, a reference,
tending to illustrate the general principle, may with propriety be
made to a case which has lately happened among ourselves. If Shays had
not been a DESPERATE DEBTOR, it is much to be doubted whether
Massachusetts would have been plunged into a civil war.

But notwithstanding the concurring testimony of experience, in this
particular, there are still to be found visionary or designing men,
who stand ready to advocate the paradox of perpetual peace between the
States, though dismembered and alienated from each other. The genius
of republics (say they) is pacific; the spirit of commerce has a
tendency to soften the manners of men, and to extinguish those
inflammable humors which have so often kindled into wars. Commercial
republics, like ours, will never be disposed to waste themselves in
ruinous contentions with each other. They will be governed by mutual
interest, and will cultivate a spirit of mutual amity and concord.

Is it not (we may ask these projectors in politics) the true interest
of all nations to cultivate the same benevolent and philosophic
spirit? If this be their true interest, have they in fact pursued it?
Has it not, on the contrary, invariably been found that momentary
passions, and immediate interest, have a more active and imperious
control over human conduct than general or remote considerations of
policy, utility or justice? Have republics in practice been less
addicted to war than monarchies? Are not the former administered by
MEN as well as the latter? Are there not aversions, predilections,
rivalships, and desires of unjust acquisitions, that affect nations as
well as kings? Are not popular assemblies frequently subject to the
impulses of rage, resentment, jealousy, avarice, and of other
irregular and violent propensities? Is it not well known that their
determinations are often governed by a few individuals in whom they
place confidence, and are, of course, liable to be tinctured by the
passions and views of those individuals? Has commerce hitherto done
anything more than change the objects of war? Is not the love of
wealth as domineering and enterprising a passion as that of power or
glory? Have there not been as many wars founded upon commercial
motives since that has become the prevailing system of nations, as
were before occasioned by the cupidity of territory or dominion? Has
not the spirit of commerce, in many instances, administered new
incentives to the appetite, both for the one and for the other? Let
experience, the least fallible guide of human opinions, be appealed to
for an answer to these inquiries.

Sparta, Athens, Rome, and Carthage were all republics; two of them,
Athens and Carthage, of the commercial kind. Yet were they as often
engaged in wars, offensive and defensive, as the neighboring
monarchies of the same times. Sparta was little better than a
wellregulated camp; and Rome was never sated of carnage and conquest.

Carthage, though a commercial republic, was the aggressor in the very
war that ended in her destruction. Hannibal had carried her arms into
the heart of Italy and to the gates of Rome, before Scipio, in turn,
gave him an overthrow in the territories of Carthage, and made a
conquest of the commonwealth.

Venice, in later times, figured more than once in wars of ambition,
till, becoming an object to the other Italian states, Pope Julius
II. found means to accomplish that formidable league, [9] which gave a
deadly blow to the power and pride of this haughty republic.

The provinces of Holland, till they were overwhelmed in debts and
taxes, took a leading and conspicuous part in the wars of Europe. They
had furious contests with England for the dominion of the sea, and
were among the most persevering and most implacable of the opponents
of Louis XIV.

In the government of Britain the representatives of the people compose
one branch of the national legislature. Commerce has been for ages the
predominant pursuit of that country. Few nations, nevertheless, have
been more frequently engaged in war; and the wars in which that
kingdom has been engaged have, in numerous instances, proceeded from
the people.

There have been, if I may so express it, almost as many popular as
royal wars. The cries of the nation and the importunities of their
representatives have, upon various occasions, dragged their monarchs
into war, or continued them in it, contrary to their inclinations, and
sometimes contrary to the real interests of the State. In that
memorable struggle for superiority between the rival houses of AUSTRIA
and BOURBON, which so long kept Europe in a flame, it is well known
that the antipathies of the English against the French, seconding the
ambition, or rather the avarice, of a favorite leader, [10] protracted
the war beyond the limits marked out by sound policy, and for a
considerable time in opposition to the views of the court.

The wars of these two last-mentioned nations have in a great measure
grown out of commercial considerations,--the desire of supplanting and
the fear of being supplanted, either in particular branches of traffic
or in the general advantages of trade and navigation.

From this summary of what has taken place in other countries, whose
situations have borne the nearest resemblance to our own, what reason
can we have to confide in those reveries which would seduce us into an
expectation of peace and cordiality between the members of the present
confederacy, in a state of separation? Have we not already seen enough
of the fallacy and extravagance of those idle theories which have
amused us with promises of an exemption from the imperfections,
weaknesses and evils incident to society in every shape? Is it not
time to awake from the deceitful dream of a golden age, and to adopt
as a practical maxim for the direction of our political conduct that
we, as well as the other inhabitants of the globe, are yet remote from
the happy empire of perfect wisdom and perfect virtue?  Let the point
of extreme depression to which our national dignity and credit have
sunk, let the inconveniences felt everywhere from a lax and ill
administration of government, let the revolt of a part of the State of
North Carolina, the late menacing disturbances in Pennsylvania, and
the actual insurrections and rebellions in Massachusetts, declare--!
So far is the general sense of mankind from corresponding with the
tenets of those who endeavor to lull asleep our apprehensions of
discord and hostility between the States, in the event of disunion,
that it has from long observation of the progress of society become a
sort of axiom in politics, that vicinity or nearness of situation,
constitutes nations natural enemies. An intelligent writer expresses
himself on this subject to this effect: "NEIGHBORING NATIONS (says he)
are naturally enemies of each other unless their common weakness
forces them to league in a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC, and their
constitution prevents the differences that neighborhood occasions,
extinguishing that secret jealousy which disposes all states to
aggrandize themselves at the expense of their neighbors." [11] This
passage, at the same time, points out the EVIL and suggests the
REMEDY.
IT IS sometimes asked, with an air of seeming triumph, what
inducements could the States have, if disunited, to make war upon each
other? It would be a full answer to this question to say--precisely
the same inducements which have, at different times, deluged in blood
all the nations in the world. But, unfortunately for us, the question
admits of a more particular answer. There are causes of differences
within our immediate contemplation, of the tendency of which, even
under the restraints of a federal constitution, we have had sufficient
experience to enable us to form a judgment of what might be expected
if those restraints were removed.

Territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most
fertile sources of hostility among nations. Perhaps the greatest
proportion of wars that have desolated the earth have sprung from this
origin. This cause would exist among us in full force. We have a vast
tract of unsettled territory within the boundaries of the United
States. There still are discordant and undecided claims between
several of them, and the dissolution of the Union would lay a
foundation for similar claims between them all. It is well known that
they have heretofore had serious and animated discussion concerning
the rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time of the
Revolution, and which usually went under the name of crown lands. The
States within the limits of whose colonial governments they were
comprised have claimed them as their property, the others have
contended that the rights of the crown in this article devolved upon
the Union; especially as to all that part of the Western territory
which, either by actual possession, or through the submission of the
Indian proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction of the king of
Great Britain, till it was relinquished in the treaty of peace. This,
it has been said, was at all events an acquisition to the Confederacy
by compact with a foreign power. It has been the prudent policy of
Congress to appease this controversy, by prevailing upon the States to
make cessions to the United States for the benefit of the whole. This
has been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of the Union, to
afford a decided prospect of an amicable termination of the dispute. A
dismemberment of the Confederacy, however, would revive this dispute,
and would create others on the same subject. At present, a large part
of the vacant Western territory is, by cession at least, if not by any
anterior right, the common property of the Union. If that were at an
end, the States which made the cession, on a principle of federal
compromise, would be apt when the motive of the grant had ceased, to
reclaim the lands as a reversion. The other States would no doubt
insist on a proportion, by right of representation. Their argument
would be, that a grant, once made, could not be revoked; and that the
justice of participating in territory acquired or secured by the joint
efforts of the Confederacy, remained undiminished. If, contrary to
probability, it should be admitted by all the States, that each had a
right to a share of this common stock, there would still be a
difficulty to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of
apportionment. Different principles would be set up by different
States for this purpose; and as they would affect the opposite
interests of the parties, they might not easily be susceptible of a
pacific adjustment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore, we perceive an
ample theatre for hostile pretensions, without any umpire or common
judge to interpose between the contending parties. To reason from the
past to the future, we shall have good ground to apprehend, that the
sword would sometimes be appealed to as the arbiter of their
differences. The circumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and
Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, admonish us not to be
sanguine in expecting an easy accommodation of such differences. The
articles of confederation obliged the parties to submit the matter to
the decision of a federal court. The submission was made, and the
court decided in favor of Pennsylvania. But Connecticut gave strong
indications of dissatisfaction with that determination; nor did she
appear to be entirely resigned to it, till, by negotiation and
management, something like an equivalent was found for the loss she
supposed herself to have sustained. Nothing here said is intended to
convey the slightest censure on the conduct of that State. She no
doubt sincerely believed herself to have been injured by the decision;
and States, like individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance in
determinations to their disadvantage.

Those who had an opportunity of seeing the inside of the transactions
which attended the progress of the controversy between this State and
the district of Vermont, can vouch the opposition we experienced, as
well from States not interested as from those which were interested in
the claim; and can attest the danger to which the peace of the
Confederacy might have been exposed, had this State attempted to
assert its rights by force. Two motives preponderated in that
opposition: one, a jealousy entertained of our future power; and the
other, the interest of certain individuals of influence in the
neighboring States, who had obtained grants of lands under the actual
government of that district. Even the States which brought forward
claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solicitous to dismember
this State, than to establish their own pretensions. These were New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. New Jersey and Rhode
Island, upon all occasions, discovered a warm zeal for the
independence of Vermont; and Maryland, till alarmed by the appearance
of a connection between Canada and that State, entered deeply into the
same views. These being small States, saw with an unfriendly eye the
perspective of our growing greatness. In a review of these
transactions we may trace some of the causes which would be likely to
embroil the States with each other, if it should be their unpropitious
destiny to become disunited.

The competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of
contention. The States less favorably circumstanced would be desirous
of escaping from the disadvantages of local situation, and of sharing
in the advantages of their more fortunate neighbors. Each State, or
separate confederacy, would pursue a system of commercial policy
peculiar to itself. This would occasion distinctions, preferences, and
exclusions, which would beget discontent. The habits of intercourse,
on the basis of equal privileges, to which we have been accustomed
since the earliest settlement of the country, would give a keener edge
to those causes of discontent than they would naturally have
independent of this circumstance. WE SHOULD BE READY TO DENOMINATE
INJURIES THOSE THINGS WHICH WERE IN REALITY THE JUSTIFIABLE ACTS OF
INDEPENDENT SOVEREIGNTIES CONSULTING A DISTINCT INTEREST. The spirit
of enterprise, which characterizes the commercial part of America, has
left no occasion of displaying itself unimproved. It is not at all
probable that this unbridled spirit would pay much respect to those
regulations of trade by which particular States might endeavor to
secure exclusive benefits to their own citizens. The infractions of
these regulations, on one side, the efforts to prevent and repel them,
on the other, would naturally lead to outrages, and these to reprisals
and wars.

The opportunities which some States would have of rendering others
tributary to them by commercial regulations would be impatiently
submitted to by the tributary States. The relative situation of New
York, Connecticut, and New Jersey would afford an example of this
kind. New York, from the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on
her importations. A great part of these duties must be paid by the
inhabitants of the two other States in the capacity of consumers of
what we import. New York would neither be willing nor able to forego
this advantage. Her citizens would not consent that a duty paid by
them should be remitted in favor of the citizens of her neighbors; nor
would it be practicable, if there were not this impediment in the way,
to distinguish the customers in our own markets. Would Connecticut and
New Jersey long submit to be taxed by New York for her exclusive
benefit? Should we be long permitted to remain in the quiet and
undisturbed enjoyment of a metropolis, from the possession of which we
derived an advantage so odious to our neighbors, and, in their
opinion, so oppressive? Should we be able to preserve it against the
incumbent weight of Connecticut on the one side, and the co-operating
pressure of New Jersey on the other? These are questions that temerity
alone will answer in the affirmative.

The public debt of the Union would be a further cause of collision
between the separate States or confederacies. The apportionment, in
the first instance, and the progressive extinguishment afterward,
would be alike productive of ill-humor and animosity. How would it be
possible to agree upon a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all?
There is scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely free from
real objections. These, as usual, would be exaggerated by the adverse
interest of the parties. There are even dissimilar views among the
States as to the general principle of discharging the public
debt. Some of them, either less impressed with the importance of
national credit, or because their citizens have little, if any,
immediate interest in the question, feel an indifference, if not a
repugnance, to the payment of the domestic debt at any rate. These
would be inclined to magnify the difficulties of a
distribution. Others of them, a numerous body of whose citizens are
creditors to the public beyond proportion of the State in the total
amount of the national debt, would be strenuous for some equitable and
effective provision. The procrastinations of the former would excite
the resentments of the latter. The settlement of a rule would, in the
meantime, be postponed by real differences of opinion and affected
delays. The citizens of the States interested would clamour; foreign
powers would urge for the satisfaction of their just demands, and the
peace of the States would be hazarded to the double contingency of
external invasion and internal contention.

Suppose the difficulties of agreeing upon a rule surmounted, and the
apportionment made. Still there is great room to suppose that the rule
agreed upon would, upon experiment, be found to bear harder upon some
States than upon others. Those which were sufferers by it would
naturally seek for a mitigation of the burden. The others would as
naturally be disinclined to a revision, which was likely to end in an
increase of their own incumbrances. Their refusal would be too
plausible a pretext to the complaining States to withhold their
contributions, not to be embraced with avidity; and the non-compliance
of these States with their engagements would be a ground of bitter
discussion and altercation. If even the rule adopted should in
practice justify the equality of its principle, still delinquencies in
payments on the part of some of the States would result from a
diversity of other causes--the real deficiency of resources; the
mismanagement of their finances; accidental disorders in the
management of the government; and, in addition to the rest, the
reluctance with which men commonly part with money for purposes that
have outlived the exigencies which produced them, and interfere with
the supply of immediate wants. Delinquencies, from whatever causes,
would be productive of complaints, recriminations, and quarrels. There
is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the tranquillity of
nations than their being bound to mutual contributions for any common
object that does not yield an equal and coincident benefit. For it is
an observation, as true as it is trite, that there is nothing men
differ so readily about as the payment of money.

Laws in violation of private contracts, as they amount to aggressions
on the rights of those States whose citizens are injured by them, may
be considered as another probable source of hostility. We are not
authorized to expect that a more liberal or more equitable spirit
would preside over the legislations of the individual States
hereafter, if unrestrained by any additional checks, than we have
heretofore seen in too many instances disgracing their several
codes. We have observed the disposition to retaliation excited in
Connecticut in consequence of the enormities perpetrated by the
Legislature of Rhode Island; and we reasonably infer that, in similar
cases, under other circumstances, a war, not of PARCHMENT, but of the
sword, would chastise such atrocious breaches of moral obligation and
social justice.

The probability of incompatible alliances between the different States
or confederacies and different foreign nations, and the effects of
this situation upon the peace of the whole, have been sufficiently
unfolded in some preceding papers. From the view they have exhibited
of this part of the subject, this conclusion is to be drawn, that
America, if not connected at all, or only by the feeble tie of a
simple league, offensive and defensive, would, by the operation of
such jarring alliances, be gradually entangled in all the pernicious
labyrinths of European politics and wars; and by the destructive
contentions of the parts into which she was divided, would be likely
to become a prey to the artifices and machinations of powers equally
the enemies of them all. Divide et impera [1] must be the motto of
every nation that either hates or fears us. [2]
ASSUMING it therefore as an established truth that the several States,
in case of disunion, or such combinations of them as might happen to
be formed out of the wreck of the general Confederacy, would be
subject to those vicissitudes of peace and war, of friendship and
enmity, with each other, which have fallen to the lot of all
neighboring nations not united under one government, let us enter into
a concise detail of some of the consequences that would attend such a
situation.

War between the States, in the first period of their separate
existence, would be accompanied with much greater distresses than it
commonly is in those countries where regular military establishments
have long obtained. The disciplined armies always kept on foot on the
continent of Europe, though they bear a malignant aspect to liberty
and economy, have, notwithstanding, been productive of the signal
advantage of rendering sudden conquests impracticable, and of
preventing that rapid desolation which used to mark the progress of
war prior to their introduction. The art of fortification has
contributed to the same ends. The nations of Europe are encircled with
chains of fortified places, which mutually obstruct
invasion. Campaigns are wasted in reducing two or three frontier
garrisons, to gain admittance into an enemy's country. Similar
impediments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength and delay the
progress of an invader. Formerly, an invading army would penetrate
into the heart of a neighboring country almost as soon as intelligence
of its approach could be received; but now a comparatively small force
of disciplined troops, acting on the defensive, with the aid of posts,
is able to impede, and finally to frustrate, the enterprises of one
much more considerable. The history of war, in that quarter of the
globe, is no longer a history of nations subdued and empires
overturned, but of towns taken and retaken; of battles that decide
nothing; of retreats more beneficial than victories; of much effort
and little acquisition.

In this country the scene would be altogether reversed. The jealousy
of military establishments would postpone them as long as
possible. The want of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one
state open to another, would facilitate inroads. The populous States
would, with little difficulty, overrun their less populous
neighbors. Conquests would be as easy to be made as difficult to be
retained. War, therefore, would be desultory and predatory. PLUNDER
and devastation ever march in the train of irregulars. The calamities
of individuals would make the principal figure in the events which
would characterize our military exploits.

This picture is not too highly wrought; though, I confess, it would
not long remain a just one. Safety from external danger is the most
powerful director of national conduct. Even the ardent love of liberty
will, after a time, give way to its dictates. The violent destruction
of life and property incident to war, the continual effort and alarm
attendant on a state of continual danger, will compel nations the most
attached to liberty to resort for repose and security to institutions
which have a tendency to destroy their civil and political rights. To
be more safe, they at length become willing to run the risk of being
less free.

The institutions chiefly alluded to are STANDING ARMIES and the
correspondent appendages of military establishments. Standing armies,
it is said, are not provided against in the new Constitution; and it
is therefore inferred that they may exist under it. [1] Their
existence, however, from the very terms of the proposition, is, at
most, problematical and uncertain. But standing armies, it may be
replied, must inevitably result from a dissolution of the
Confederacy. Frequent war and constant apprehension, which require a
state of as constant preparation, will infallibly produce them. The
weaker States or confederacies would first have recourse to them, to
put themselves upon an equality with their more potent neighbors. They
would endeavor to supply the inferiority of population and resources
by a more regular and effective system of defense, by disciplined
troops, and by fortifications. They would, at the same time, be
necessitated to strengthen the executive arm of government, in doing
which their constitutions would acquire a progressive direction toward
monarchy. It is of the nature of war to increase the executive at the
expense of the legislative authority.

The expedients which have been mentioned would soon give the States or
confederacies that made use of them a superiority over their
neighbors. Small states, or states of less natural strength, under
vigorous governments, and with the assistance of disciplined armies,
have often triumphed over large states, or states of greater natural
strength, which have been destitute of these advantages. Neither the
pride nor the safety of the more important States or confederacies
would permit them long to submit to this mortifying and adventitious
superiority. They would quickly resort to means similar to those by
which it had been effected, to reinstate themselves in their lost
pre-eminence. Thus, we should, in a little time, see established in
every part of this country the same engines of despotism which have
been the scourge of the Old World. This, at least, would be the
natural course of things; and our reasonings will be the more likely
to be just, in proportion as they are accommodated to this standard.

These are not vague inferences drawn from supposed or speculative
defects in a Constitution, the whole power of which is lodged in the
hands of a people, or their representatives and delegates, but they
are solid conclusions, drawn from the natural and necessary progress
of human affairs.

It may, perhaps, be asked, by way of objection to this, why did not
standing armies spring up out of the contentions which so often
distracted the ancient republics of Greece? Different answers, equally
satisfactory, may be given to this question. The industrious habits of
the people of the present day, absorbed in the pursuits of gain, and
devoted to the improvements of agriculture and commerce, are
incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers, which was the
true condition of the people of those republics. The means of revenue,
which have been so greatly multiplied by the increase of gold and
silver and of the arts of industry, and the science of finance, which
is the offspring of modern times, concurring with the habits of
nations, have produced an entire revolution in the system of war, and
have rendered disciplined armies, distinct from the body of the
citizens, the inseparable companions of frequent hostility.

There is a wide difference, also, between military establishments in a
country seldom exposed by its situation to internal invasions, and in
one which is often subject to them, and always apprehensive of
them. The rulers of the former can have a good pretext, if they are
even so inclined, to keep on foot armies so numerous as must of
necessity be maintained in the latter. These armies being, in the
first case, rarely, if at all, called into activity for interior
defense, the people are in no danger of being broken to military
subordination. The laws are not accustomed to relaxations, in favor of
military exigencies; the civil state remains in full vigor, neither
corrupted, nor confounded with the principles or propensities of the
other state. The smallness of the army renders the natural strength of
the community an over-match for it; and the citizens, not habituated
to look up to the military power for protection, or to submit to its
oppressions, neither love nor fear the soldiery; they view them with a
spirit of jealous acquiescence in a necessary evil, and stand ready to
resist a power which they suppose may be exerted to the prejudice of
their rights. The army under such circumstances may usefully aid the
magistrate to suppress a small faction, or an occasional mob, or
insurrection; but it will be unable to enforce encroachments against
the united efforts of the great body of the people.

In a country in the predicament last described, the contrary of all
this happens. The perpetual menacings of danger oblige the government
to be always prepared to repel it; its armies must be numerous enough
for instant defense. The continual necessity for their services
enhances the importance of the soldier, and proportionably degrades
the condition of the citizen. The military state becomes elevated
above the civil. The inhabitants of territories, often the theatre of
war, are unavoidably subjected to frequent infringements on their
rights, which serve to weaken their sense of those rights; and by
degrees the people are brought to consider the soldiery not only as
their protectors, but as their superiors. The transition from this
disposition to that of considering them masters, is neither remote nor
difficult; but it is very difficult to prevail upon a people under
such impressions, to make a bold or effectual resistance to
usurpations supported by the military power.

The kingdom of Great Britain falls within the first description. An
insular situation, and a powerful marine, guarding it in a great
measure against the possibility of foreign invasion, supersede the
necessity of a numerous army within the kingdom. A sufficient force to
make head against a sudden descent, till the militia could have time
to rally and embody, is all that has been deemed requisite. No motive
of national policy has demanded, nor would public opinion have
tolerated, a larger number of troops upon its domestic
establishment. There has been, for a long time past, little room for
the operation of the other causes, which have been enumerated as the
consequences of internal war. This peculiar felicity of situation has,
in a great degree, contributed to preserve the liberty which that
country to this day enjoys, in spite of the prevalent venality and
corruption. If, on the contrary, Britain had been situated on the
continent, and had been compelled, as she would have been, by that
situation, to make her military establishments at home coextensive
with those of the other great powers of Europe, she, like them, would
in all probability be, at this day, a victim to the absolute power of
a single man. 'T is possible, though not easy, that the people of that
island may be enslaved from other causes; but it cannot be by the
prowess of an army so inconsiderable as that which has been usually
kept up within the kingdom.

If we are wise enough to preserve the Union we may for ages enjoy an
advantage similar to that of an insulated situation. Europe is at a
great distance from us. Her colonies in our vicinity will be likely to
continue too much disproportioned in strength to be able to give us
any dangerous annoyance. Extensive military establishments cannot, in
this position, be necessary to our security. But if we should be
disunited, and the integral parts should either remain separated, or,
which is most probable, should be thrown together into two or three
confederacies, we should be, in a short course of time, in the
predicament of the continental powers of Europe --our liberties would
be a prey to the means of defending ourselves against the ambition and
jealousy of each other.

This is an idea not superficial or futile, but solid and weighty. It
deserves the most serious and mature consideration of every prudent
and honest man of whatever party. If such men will make a firm and
solemn pause, and meditate dispassionately on the importance of this
interesting idea; if they will contemplate it in all its attitudes,
and trace it to all its consequences, they will not hesitate to part
with trivial objections to a Constitution, the rejection of which
would in all probability put a final period to the Union. The airy
phantoms that flit before the distempered imaginations of some of its
adversaries would quickly give place to the more substantial forms of
dangers, real, certain, and formidable.
A FIRM Union will be of the utmost moment to the peace and liberty of
the States, as a barrier against domestic faction and insurrection. It
is impossible to read the history of the petty republics of Greece and
Italy without feeling sensations of horror and disgust at the
distractions with which they were continually agitated, and at the
rapid succession of revolutions by which they were kept in a state of
perpetual vibration between the extremes of tyranny and anarchy. If
they exhibit occasional calms, these only serve as short-lived
contrast to the furious storms that are to succeed. If now and then
intervals of felicity open to view, we behold them with a mixture of
regret, arising from the reflection that the pleasing scenes before us
are soon to be overwhelmed by the tempestuous waves of sedition and
party rage. If momentary rays of glory break forth from the gloom,
while they dazzle us with a transient and fleeting brilliancy, they at
the same time admonish us to lament that the vices of government
should pervert the direction and tarnish the lustre of those bright
talents and exalted endowments for which the favored soils that
produced them have been so justly celebrated.

From the disorders that disfigure the annals of those republics the
advocates of despotism have drawn arguments, not only against the
forms of republican government, but against the very principles of
civil liberty. They have decried all free government as inconsistent
with the order of society, and have indulged themselves in malicious
exultation over its friends and partisans. Happily for mankind,
stupendous fabrics reared on the basis of liberty, which have
flourished for ages, have, in a few glorious instances, refuted their
gloomy sophisms. And, I trust, America will be the broad and solid
foundation of other edifices, not less magnificent, which will be
equally permanent monuments of their errors.

But it is not to be denied that the portraits they have sketched of
republican government were too just copies of the originals from which
they were taken. If it had been found impracticable to have devised
models of a more perfect structure, the enlightened friends to liberty
would have been obliged to abandon the cause of that species of
government as indefensible. The science of politics, however, like
most other sciences, has received great improvement. The efficacy of
various principles is now well understood, which were either not known
at all, or imperfectly known to the ancients. The regular distribution
of power into distinct departments; the introduction of legislative
balances and checks; the institution of courts composed of judges
holding their offices during good behavior; the representation of the
people in the legislature by deputies of their own election: these are
wholly new discoveries, or have made their principal progress towards
perfection in modern times. They are means, and powerful means, by
which the excellences of republican government may be retained and its
imperfections lessened or avoided. To this catalogue of circumstances
that tend to the amelioration of popular systems of civil government,
I shall venture, however novel it may appear to some, to add one more,
on a principle which has been made the foundation of an objection to
the new Constitution; I mean the ENLARGEMENT of the ORBIT within which
such systems are to revolve, either in respect to the dimensions of a
single State or to the consolidation of several smaller States into
one great Confederacy. The latter is that which immediately concerns
the object under consideration. It will, however, be of use to examine
the principle in its application to a single State, which shall be
attended to in another place.

The utility of a Confederacy, as well to suppress faction and to guard
the internal tranquillity of States, as to increase their external
force and security, is in reality not a new idea. It has been
practiced upon in different countries and ages, and has received the
sanction of the most approved writers on the subject of politics. The
opponents of the plan proposed have, with great assiduity, cited and
circulated the observations of Montesquieu on the necessity of a
contracted territory for a republican government. But they seem not to
have been apprised of the sentiments of that great man expressed in
another part of his work, nor to have adverted to the consequences of
the principle to which they subscribe with such ready acquiescence.

When Montesquieu recommends a small extent for republics, the
standards he had in view were of dimensions far short of the limits of
almost every one of these States. Neither Virginia, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, nor Georgia can by any means
be compared with the models from which he reasoned and to which the
terms of his description apply. If we therefore take his ideas on this
point as the criterion of truth, we shall be driven to the alternative
either of taking refuge at once in the arms of monarchy, or of
splitting ourselves into an infinity of little, jealous, clashing,
tumultuous commonwealths, the wretched nurseries of unceasing discord,
and the miserable objects of universal pity or contempt. Some of the
writers who have come forward on the other side of the question seem
to have been aware of the dilemma; and have even been bold enough to
hint at the division of the larger States as a desirable thing. Such
an infatuated policy, such a desperate expedient, might, by the
multiplication of petty offices, answer the views of men who possess
not qualifications to extend their influence beyond the narrow circles
of personal intrigue, but it could never promote the greatness or
happiness of the people of America.

Referring the examination of the principle itself to another place, as
has been already mentioned, it will be sufficient to remark here that,
in the sense of the author who has been most emphatically quoted upon
the occasion, it would only dictate a reduction of the SIZE of the
more considerable MEMBERS of the Union, but would not militate against
their being all comprehended in one confederate government. And this
is the true question, in the discussion of which we are at present
interested.

So far are the suggestions of Montesquieu from standing in opposition
to a general Union of the States, that he explicitly treats of a
CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC as the expedient for extending the sphere of
popular government, and reconciling the advantages of monarchy with
those of republicanism.

"It is very probable,'' (says he [1] ) "that mankind would have been
obliged at length to live constantly under the government of a single
person, had they not contrived a kind of constitution that has all the
internal advantages of a republican, together with the external force
of a monarchical government. I mean a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC.

"This form of government is a convention by which several smaller
STATES agree to become members of a larger ONE, which they intend to
form. It is a kind of assemblage of societies that constitute a new
one, capable of increasing, by means of new associations, till they
arrive to such a degree of power as to be able to provide for the
security of the united body.

"A republic of this kind, able to withstand an external force, may
support itself without any internal corruptions. The form of this
society prevents all manner of inconveniences.

"If a single member should attempt to usurp the supreme authority, he
could not be supposed to have an equal authority and credit in all the
confederate states. Were he to have too great influence over one, this
would alarm the rest. Were he to subdue a part, that which would still
remain free might oppose him with forces independent of those which he
had usurped and overpower him before he could be settled in his
usurpation.

"Should a popular insurrection happen in one of the confederate states
the others are able to quell it. Should abuses creep into one part,
they are reformed by those that remain sound. The state may be
destroyed on one side, and not on the other; the confederacy may be
dissolved, and the confederates preserve their sovereignty.

"As this government is composed of small republics, it enjoys the
internal happiness of each; and with respect to its external
situation, it is possessed, by means of the association, of all the
advantages of large monarchies.''  I have thought it proper to quote
at length these interesting passages, because they contain a luminous
abridgment of the principal arguments in favor of the Union, and must
effectually remove the false impressions which a misapplication of
other parts of the work was calculated to make. They have, at the same
time, an intimate connection with the more immediate design of this
paper; which is, to illustrate the tendency of the Union to repress
domestic faction and insurrection.

A distinction, more subtle than accurate, has been raised between a
CONFEDERACY and a CONSOLIDATION of the States. The essential
characteristic of the first is said to be, the restriction of its
authority to the members in their collective capacities, without
reaching to the individuals of whom they are composed. It is contended
that the national council ought to have no concern with any object of
internal administration. An exact equality of suffrage between the
members has also been insisted upon as a leading feature of a
confederate government. These positions are, in the main, arbitrary;
they are supported neither by principle nor precedent. It has indeed
happened, that governments of this kind have generally operated in the
manner which the distinction taken notice of, supposes to be inherent
in their nature; but there have been in most of them extensive
exceptions to the practice, which serve to prove, as far as example
will go, that there is no absolute rule on the subject. And it will be
clearly shown in the course of this investigation that as far as the
principle contended for has prevailed, it has been the cause of
incurable disorder and imbecility in the government.

The definition of a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC seems simply to be "an
assemblage of societies,'' or an association of two or more states
into one state. The extent, modifications, and objects of the federal
authority are mere matters of discretion. So long as the separate
organization of the members be not abolished; so long as it exists, by
a constitutional necessity, for local purposes; though it should be in
perfect subordination to the general authority of the union, it would
still be, in fact and in theory, an association of states, or a
confederacy. The proposed Constitution, so far from implying an
abolition of the State governments, makes them constituent parts of
the national sovereignty, by allowing them a direct representation in
the Senate, and leaves in their possession certain exclusive and very
important portions of sovereign power. This fully corresponds, in
every rational import of the terms, with the idea of a federal
government.

In the Lycian confederacy, which consisted of twenty-three CITIES or
republics, the largest were entitled to THREE votes in the COMMON
COUNCIL, those of the middle class to TWO, and the smallest to
ONE. The COMMON COUNCIL had the appointment of all the judges and
magistrates of the respective CITIES. This was certainly the most,
delicate species of interference in their internal administration; for
if there be any thing that seems exclusively appropriated to the local
jurisdictions, it is the appointment of their own officers. Yet
Montesquieu, speaking of this association, says: "Were I to give a
model of an excellent Confederate Republic, it would be that of
Lycia.'' Thus we perceive that the distinctions insisted upon were not
within the contemplation of this enlightened civilian; and we shall be
led to conclude, that they are the novel refinements of an erroneous
theory.
THE importance of the Union, in a commercial light, is one of those
points about which there is least room to entertain a difference of
opinion, and which has, in fact, commanded the most general assent of
men who have any acquaintance with the subject. This applies as well
to our intercourse with foreign countries as with each other.

There are appearances to authorize a supposition that the adventurous
spirit, which distinguishes the commercial character of America, has
already excited uneasy sensations in several of the maritime powers of
Europe. They seem to be apprehensive of our too great interference in
that carrying trade, which is the support of their navigation and the
foundation of their naval strength. Those of them which have colonies
in America look forward to what this country is capable of becoming,
with painful solicitude. They foresee the dangers that may threaten
their American dominions from the neighborhood of States, which have
all the dispositions, and would possess all the means, requisite to
the creation of a powerful marine. Impressions of this kind will
naturally indicate the policy of fostering divisions among us, and of
depriving us, as far as possible, of an ACTIVE COMMERCE in our own
bottoms. This would answer the threefold purpose of preventing our
interference in their navigation, of monopolizing the profits of our
trade, and of clipping the wings by which we might soar to a dangerous
greatness. Did not prudence forbid the detail, it would not be
difficult to trace, by facts, the workings of this policy to the
cabinets of ministers.

If we continue united, we may counteract a policy so unfriendly to our
prosperity in a variety of ways. By prohibitory regulations,
extending, at the same time, throughout the States, we may oblige
foreign countries to bid against each other, for the privileges of our
markets. This assertion will not appear chimerical to those who are
able to appreciate the importance of the markets of three millions of
people--increasing in rapid progression, for the most part exclusively
addicted to agriculture, and likely from local circumstances to remain
so--to any manufacturing nation; and the immense difference there
would be to the trade and navigation of such a nation, between a
direct communication in its own ships, and an indirect conveyance of
its products and returns, to and from America, in the ships of another
country. Suppose, for instance, we had a government in America,
capable of excluding Great Britain (with whom we have at present no
treaty of commerce) from all our ports; what would be the probable
operation of this step upon her politics? Would it not enable us to
negotiate, with the fairest prospect of success, for commercial
privileges of the most valuable and extensive kind, in the dominions
of that kingdom? When these questions have been asked, upon other
occasions, they have received a plausible, but not a solid or
satisfactory answer. It has been said that prohibitions on our part
would produce no change in the system of Britain, because she could
prosecute her trade with us through the medium of the Dutch, who would
be her immediate customers and paymasters for those articles which
were wanted for the supply of our markets. But would not her
navigation be materially injured by the loss of the important
advantage of being her own carrier in that trade? Would not the
principal part of its profits be intercepted by the Dutch, as a
compensation for their agency and risk? Would not the mere
circumstance of freight occasion a considerable deduction? Would not
so circuitous an intercourse facilitate the competitions of other
nations, by enhancing the price of British commodities in our markets,
and by transferring to other hands the management of this interesting
branch of the British commerce?  A mature consideration of the objects
suggested by these questions will justify a belief that the real
disadvantages to Britain from such a state of things, conspiring with
the pre-possessions of a great part of the nation in favor of the
American trade, and with the importunities of the West India islands,
would produce a relaxation in her present system, and would let us
into the enjoyment of privileges in the markets of those islands
elsewhere, from which our trade would derive the most substantial
benefits. Such a point gained from the British government, and which
could not be expected without an equivalent in exemptions and
immunities in our markets, would be likely to have a correspondent
effect on the conduct of other nations, who would not be inclined to
see themselves altogether supplanted in our trade.

A further resource for influencing the conduct of European nations
toward us, in this respect, would arise from the establishment of a
federal navy. There can be no doubt that the continuance of the Union
under an efficient government would put it in our power, at a period
not very distant, to create a navy which, if it could not vie with
those of the great maritime powers, would at least be of respectable
weight if thrown into the scale of either of two contending
parties. This would be more peculiarly the case in relation to
operations in the West Indies. A few ships of the line, sent
opportunely to the reinforcement of either side, would often be
sufficient to decide the fate of a campaign, on the event of which
interests of the greatest magnitude were suspended. Our position is,
in this respect, a most commanding one. And if to this consideration
we add that of the usefulness of supplies from this country, in the
prosecution of military operations in the West Indies, it will readily
be perceived that a situation so favorable would enable us to bargain
with great advantage for commercial privileges. A price would be set
not only upon our friendship, but upon our neutrality. By a steady
adherence to the Union we may hope, erelong, to become the arbiter of
Europe in America, and to be able to incline the balance of European
competitions in this part of the world as our interest may dictate.

But in the reverse of this eligible situation, we shall discover that
the rivalships of the parts would make them checks upon each other,
and would frustrate all the tempting advantages which nature has
kindly placed within our reach. In a state so insignificant our
commerce would be a prey to the wanton intermeddlings of all nations
at war with each other; who, having nothing to fear from us, would
with little scruple or remorse, supply their wants by depredations on
our property as often as it fell in their way. The rights of
neutrality will only be respected when they are defended by an
adequate power. A nation, despicable by its weakness, forfeits even
the privilege of being neutral.

Under a vigorous national government, the natural strength and
resources of the country, directed to a common interest, would baffle
all the combinations of European jealousy to restrain our growth. This
situation would even take away the motive to such combinations, by
inducing an impracticability of success. An active commerce, an
extensive navigation, and a flourishing marine would then be the
offspring of moral and physical necessity. We might defy the little
arts of the little politicians to control or vary the irresistible and
unchangeable course of nature.

But in a state of disunion, these combinations might exist and might
operate with success. It would be in the power of the maritime
nations, availing themselves of our universal impotence, to prescribe
the conditions of our political existence; and as they have a common
interest in being our carriers, and still more in preventing our
becoming theirs, they would in all probability combine to embarrass
our navigation in such a manner as would in effect destroy it, and
confine us to a PASSIVE COMMERCE. We should then be compelled to
content ourselves with the first price of our commodities, and to see
the profits of our trade snatched from us to enrich our enemies and p
rsecutors. That unequaled spirit of enterprise, which signalizes the
genius of the American merchants and navigators, and which is in
itself an inexhaustible mine of national wealth, would be stifled and
lost, and poverty and disgrace would overspread a country which, with
wisdom, might make herself the admiration and envy of the world.

There are rights of great moment to the trade of America which are
rights of the Union--I allude to the fisheries, to the navigation of
the Western lakes, and to that of the Mississippi. The dissolution of
the Confederacy would give room for delicate questions concerning the
future existence of these rights; which the interest of more powerful
partners would hardly fail to solve to our disadvantage. The
disposition of Spain with regard to the Mississippi needs no
comment. France and Britain are concerned with us in the fisheries,
and view them as of the utmost moment to their navigation. They, of
course, would hardly remain long indifferent to that decided mastery,
of which experience has shown us to be possessed in this valuable
branch of traffic, and by which we are able to undersell those nations
in their own markets. What more natural than that they should be
disposed to exclude from the lists such dangerous competitors?  This
branch of trade ought not to be considered as a partial benefit. All
the navigating States may, in different degrees, advantageously
participate in it, and under circumstances of a greater extension of
mercantile capital, would not be unlikely to do it. As a nursery of
seamen, it now is, or when time shall have more nearly assimilated the
principles of navigation in the several States, will become, a
universal resource. To the establishment of a navy, it must be
indispensable.

To this great national object, a NAVY, union will contribute in
various ways. Every institution will grow and flourish in proportion
to the quantity and extent of the means concentred towards its
formation and support. A navy of the United States, as it would
embrace the resources of all, is an object far less remote than a navy
of any single State or partial confederacy, which would only embrace
the resources of a single part. It happens, indeed, that different
portions of confederated America possess each some peculiar advantage
for this essential establishment. The more southern States furnish in
greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores--tar, pitch, and
turpentine. Their wood for the construction of ships is also of a more
solid and lasting texture. The difference in the duration of the ships
of which the navy might be composed, if chiefly constructed of
Southern wood, would be of signal importance, either in the view of
naval strength or of national economy. Some of the Southern and of the
Middle States yield a greater plenty of iron, and of better
quality. Seamen must chiefly be drawn from the Northern hive. The
necessity of naval protection to external or maritime commerce does
not require a particular elucidation, no more than the conduciveness
of that species of commerce to the prosperity of a navy.

An unrestrained intercourse between the States themselves will advance
the trade of each by an interchange of their respective productions,
not only for the supply of reciprocal wants at home, but for
exportation to foreign markets. The veins of commerce in every part
will be replenished, and will acquire additional motion and vigor from
a free circulation of the commodities of every part. Commercial
enterprise will have much greater scope, from the diversity in the
productions of different States. When the staple of one fails from a
bad harvest or unproductive crop, it can call to its aid the staple of
another. The variety, not less than the value, of products for
exportation contributes to the activity of foreign commerce. It can be
conducted upon much better terms with a large number of materials of a
given value than with a small number of materials of the same value;
arising from the competitions of trade and from the fluctations of
markets. Particular articles may be in great demand at certain
periods, and unsalable at others; but if there be a variety of
articles, it can scarcely happen that they should all be at one time
in the latter predicament, and on this account the operations of the
merchant would be less liable to any considerable obstruction or
stagnation. The speculative trader will at once perceive the force of
these observations, and will acknowledge that the aggregate balance of
the commerce of the United States would bid fair to be much more
favorable than that of the thirteen States without union or with
partial unions.

It may perhaps be replied to this, that whether the States are united
or disunited, there would still be an intimate intercourse between
them which would answer the same ends; this intercourse would be
fettered, interrupted, and narrowed by a multiplicity of causes, which
in the course of these papers have been amply detailed. A unity of
commercial, as well as political, interests, can only result from a
unity of government.

There are other points of view in which this subject might be placed,
of a striking and animating kind. But they would lead us too far into
the regions of futurity, and would involve topics not proper for a
newspaper discussion. I shall briefly observe, that our situation
invites and our interests prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the
system of American affairs. The world may politically, as well as
geographically, be divided into four parts, each having a distinct set
of interests. Unhappily for the other three, Europe, by her arms and
by her negotiations, by force and by fraud, has, in different degrees,
extended her dominion over them all. Africa, Asia, and America, have
successively felt her domination. The superiority she has long
maintained has tempted her to plume herself as the Mistress of the
World, and to consider the rest of mankind as created for her
benefit. Men admired as profound philosophers have, in direct terms,
attributed to her inhabitants a physical superiority, and have gravely
asserted that all animals, and with them the human species, degenerate
in America--that even dogs cease to bark after having breathed awhile
in our atmosphere.[1] Facts have too long supported these arrogant
pretensions of the Europeans. It belongs to us to vindicate the honor
of the human race, and to teach that assuming brother,
moderation. Union will enable us to do it. Disunion will will add
another victim to his triumphs. Let Americans disdain to be the
instruments of European greatness! Let the thirteen States, bound
together in a strict and indissoluble Union, concur in erecting one
great American system, superior to the control of all transatlantic
force or influence, and able to dictate the terms of the connection
between the old and the new world!
THE effects of Union upon the commercial prosperity of the States have
been sufficiently delineated. Its tendency to promote the interests of
revenue will be the subject of our present inquiry.

The prosperity of commerce is now perceived and acknowledged by all
enlightened statesmen to be the most useful as well as the most
productive source of national wealth, and has accordingly become a
primary object of their political cares. By multipying the means of
gratification, by promoting the introduction and circulation of the
precious metals, those darling objects of human avarice and
enterprise, it serves to vivify and invigorate the channels of
industry, and to make them flow with greater activity and
copiousness. The assiduous merchant, the laborious husbandman, the
active mechanic, and the industrious manufacturer,--all orders of men,
look forward with eager expectation and growing alacrity to this
pleasing reward of their toils. The often-agitated question between
agriculture and commerce has, from indubitable experience, received a
decision which has silenced the rivalship that once subsisted between
them, and has proved, to the satisfaction of their friends, that their
interests are intimately blended and interwoven. It has been found in
various countries that, in proportion as commerce has flourished, land
has risen in value. And how could it have happened otherwise? Could
that which procures a freer vent for the products of the earth, which
furnishes new incitements to the cultivation of land, which is the
most powerful instrument in increasing the quantity of money in a
state--could that, in fine, which is the faithful handmaid of labor
and industry, in every shape, fail to augment that article, which is
the prolific parent of far the greatest part of the objects upon which
they are exerted? It is astonishing that so simple a truth should ever
have had an adversary; and it is one, among a multitude of proofs, how
apt a spirit of ill-informed jealousy, or of too great abstraction and
refinement, is to lead men astray from the plainest truths of reason
and conviction.

The ability of a country to pay taxes must always be proportioned, in
a great degree, to the quantity of money in circulation, and to the
celerity with which it circulates. Commerce, contributing to both
these objects, must of necessity render the payment of taxes easier,
and facilitate the requisite supplies to the treasury. The hereditary
dominions of the Emperor of Germany contain a great extent of fertile,
cultivated, and populous territory, a large proportion of which is
situated in mild and luxuriant climates. In some parts of this
territory are to be found the best gold and silver mines in
Europe. And yet, from the want of the fostering influence of commerce,
that monarch can boast but slender revenues. He has several times been
compelled to owe obligations to the pecuniary succors of other nations
for the preservation of his essential interests, and is unable, upon
the strength of his own resources, to sustain a long or continued war.

But it is not in this aspect of the subject alone that Union will be
seen to conduce to the purpose of revenue. There are other points of
view, in which its influence will appear more immediate and
decisive. It is evident from the state of the country, from the habits
of the people, from the experience we have had on the point itself,
that it is impracticable to raise any very considerable sums by direct
taxation. Tax laws have in vain been multiplied; new methods to
enforce the collection have in vain been tried; the public expectation
has been uniformly disappointed, and the treasuries of the States have
remained empty. The popular system of administration inherent in the
nature of popular government, coinciding with the real scarcity of
money incident to a languid and mutilated state of trade, has hitherto
defeated every experiment for extensive collections, and has at length
taught the different legislatures the folly of attempting them.

No person acquainted with what happens in other countries will be
surprised at this circumstance. In so opulent a nation as that of
Britain, where direct taxes from superior wealth must be much more
tolerable, and, from the vigor of the government, much more
practicable, than in America, far the greatest part of the national
revenue is derived from taxes of the indirect kind, from imposts, and
from excises. Duties on imported articles form a large branch of this
latter description.

In America, it is evident that we must a long time depend for the
means of revenue chiefly on such duties. In most parts of it, excises
must be confined within a narrow compass. The genius of the people
will ill brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of excise
laws. The pockets of the farmers, on the other hand, will reluctantly
yield but scanty supplies, in the unwelcome shape of impositions on
their houses and lands; and personal property is too precarious and
invisible a fund to be laid hold of in any other way than by the
inperceptible agency of taxes on consumption.

If these remarks have any foundation, that state of things which will
best enable us to improve and extend so valuable a resource must be
best adapted to our political welfare. And it cannot admit of a
serious doubt, that this state of things must rest on the basis of a
general Union. As far as this would be conducive to the interests of
commerce, so far it must tend to the extension of the revenue to be
drawn from that source. As far as it would contribute to rendering
regulations for the collection of the duties more simple and
efficacious, so far it must serve to answer the purposes of making the
same rate of duties more productive, and of putting it into the power
of the government to increase the rate without prejudice to trade.

The relative situation of these States; the number of rivers with
which they are intersected, and of bays that wash there shores; the
facility of communication in every direction; the affinity of language
and manners; the familiar habits of intercourse; --all these are
circumstances that would conspire to render an illicit trade between
them a matter of little difficulty, and would insure frequent evasions
of the commercial regulations of each other. The separate States or
confederacies would be necessitated by mutual jealousy to avoid the
temptations to that kind of trade by the lowness of their duties. The
temper of our governments, for a long time to come, would not permit
those rigorous precautions by which the European nations guard the
avenues into their respective countries, as well by land as by water;
and which, even there, are found insufficient obstacles to the
adventurous stratagems of avarice.

In France, there is an army of patrols (as they are called) constantly
employed to secure their fiscal regulations against the inroads of the
dealers in contraband trade. Mr. Neckar computes the number of these
patrols at upwards of twenty thousand. This shows the immense
difficulty in preventing that species of traffic, where there is an
inland communication, and places in a strong light the disadvantages
with which the collection of duties in this country would be
encumbered, if by disunion the States should be placed in a situation,
with respect to each other, resembling that of France with respect to
her neighbors. The arbitrary and vexatious powers with which the
patrols are necessarily armed, would be intolerable in a free country.

If, on the contrary, there be but one government pervading all the
States, there will be, as to the principal part of our commerce, but
ONE SIDE to guard--the ATLANTIC COAST. Vessels arriving directly from
foreign countries, laden with valuable cargoes, would rarely choose to
hazard themselves to the complicated and critical perils which would
attend attempts to unlade prior to their coming into port. They would
have to dread both the dangers of the coast, and of detection, as well
after as before their arrival at the places of their final
destination. An ordinary degree of vigilance would be competent to the
prevention of any material infractions upon the rights of the
revenue. A few armed vessels, judiciously stationed at the entrances
of our ports, might at a small expense be made useful sentinels of the
laws. And the government having the same interest to provide against
violations everywhere, the co-operation of its measures in each State
would have a powerful tendency to render them effectual. Here also we
should preserve by Union, an advantage which nature holds out to us,
and which would be relinquished by separation. The United States lie
at a great distance from Europe, and at a considerable distance from
all other places with which they would have extensive connections of
foreign trade. The passage from them to us, in a few hours, or in a
single night, as between the coasts of France and Britain, and of
other neighboring nations, would be impracticable. This is a
prodigious security against a direct contraband with foreign
countries; but a circuitous contraband to one State, through the
medium of another, would be both easy and safe. The difference between
a direct importation from abroad, and an indirect importation through
the channel of a neighboring State, in small parcels, according to
time and opportunity, with the additional facilities of inland
communication, must be palpable to every man of discernment.

It is therefore evident, that one national government would be able,
at much less expense, to extend the duties on imports, beyond
comparison, further than would be practicable to the States
separately, or to any partial confederacies. Hitherto, I believe, it
may safely be asserted, that these duties have not upon an average
exceeded in any State three per cent. In France they are estimated to
be about fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed this
proportion. [1] There seems to be nothing to hinder their being
increased in this country to at least treble their present amount. The
single article of ardent spirits, under federal regulation, might be
made to furnish a considerable revenue. Upon a ratio to the
importation into this State, the whole quantity imported into the
United States may be estimated at four millions of gallons; which, at
a shilling per gallon, would produce two hundred thousand pounds. That
article would well bear this rate of duty; and if it should tend to
diminish the consumption of it, such an effect would be equally
favorable to the agriculture, to the economy, to the morals, and to
the health of the society. There is, perhaps, nothing so much a
subject of national extravagance as these spirits.

What will be the consequence, if we are not able to avail ourselves of
the resource in question in its full extent? A nation cannot long
exist without revenues. Destitute of this essential support, it must
resign its independence, and sink into the degraded condition of a
province. This is an extremity to which no government will of choice
accede. Revenue, therefore, must be had at all events. In this
country, if the principal part be not drawn from commerce, it must
fall with oppressive weight upon land. It has been already intimated
that excises, in their true signification, are too little in unison
with the feelings of the people, to admit of great use being made of
that mode of taxation; nor, indeed, in the States where almost the
sole employment is agriculture, are the objects proper for excise
sufficiently numerous to permit very ample collections in that
way. Personal estate (as has been before remarked), from the
difficulty in tracing it, cannot be subjected to large contributions,
by any other means than by taxes on consumption. In populous cities,
it may be enough the subject of conjecture, to occasion the oppression
of individuals, without much aggregate benefit to the State; but
beyond these circles, it must, in a great measure, escape the eye and
the hand of the tax-gatherer. As the necessities of the State,
nevertheless, must be satisfied in some mode or other, the defect of
other resources must throw the principal weight of public burdens on
the possessors of land. And as, on the other hand, the wants of the
government can never obtain an adequate supply, unless all the sources
of revenue are open to its demands, the finances of the community,
under such embarrassments, cannot be put into a situation consistent
with its respectability or its security. Thus we shall not even have
the consolations of a full treasury, to atone for the oppression of
that valuable class of the citizens who are employed in the
cultivation of the soil. But public and private distress will keep
pace with each other in gloomy concert; and unite in deploring the
infatuation of those counsels which led to disunion.
As CONNECTED with the subject of revenue, we may with propriety
consider that of economy. The money saved from one object may be
usefully applied to another, and there will be so much the less to be
drawn from the pockets of the people. If the States are united under
one government, there will be but one national civil list to support;
if they are divided into several confederacies, there will be as many
different national civil lists to be provided for--and each of them,
as to the principal departments, coextensive with that which would be
necessary for a government of the whole. The entire separation of the
States into thirteen unconnected sovereignties is a project too
extravagant and too replete with danger to have many advocates. The
ideas of men who speculate upon the dismemberment of the empire seem
generally turned toward three confederacies--one consisting of the
four Northern, another of the four Middle, and a third of the five
Southern States. There is little probability that there would be a
greater number. According to this distribution, each confederacy would
comprise an extent of territory larger than that of the kingdom of
Great Britain. No well-informed man will suppose that the affairs of
such a confederacy can be properly regulated by a government less
comprehensive in its organs or institutions than that which has been
proposed by the convention. When the dimensions of a State attain to a
certain magnitude, it requires the same energy of government and the
same forms of administration which are requisite in one of much
greater extent. This idea admits not of precise demonstration, because
there is no rule by which we can measure the momentum of civil power
necessary to the government of any given number of individuals; but
when we consider that the island of Britain, nearly commensurate with
each of the supposed confederacies, contains about eight millions of
people, and when we reflect upon the degree of authority required to
direct the passions of so large a society to the public good, we shall
see no reason to doubt that the like portion of power would be
sufficient to perform the same task in a society far more
numerous. Civil power, properly organized and exerted, is capable of
diffusing its force to a very great extent; and can, in a manner,
reproduce itself in every part of a great empire by a judicious
arrangement of subordinate institutions.

The supposition that each confederacy into which the States would be
likely to be divided would require a government not less comprehensive
than the one proposed, will be strengthened by another supposition,
more probable than that which presents us with three confederacies as
the alternative to a general Union. If we attend carefully to
geographical and commercial considerations, in conjunction with the
habits and prejudices of the different States, we shall be led to
conclude that in case of disunion they will most naturally league
themselves under two governments. The four Eastern States, from all
the causes that form the links of national sympathy and connection,
may with certainty be expected to unite. New York, situated as she is,
would never be unwise enough to oppose a feeble and unsupported flank
to the weight of that confederacy. There are other obvious reasons
that would facilitate her accession to it. New Jersey is too small a
State to think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still more
powerful combination; nor do there appear to be any obstacles to her
admission into it. Even Pennsylvania would have strong inducements to
join the Northern league. An active foreign commerce, on the basis of
her own navigation, is her true policy, and coincides with the
opinions and dispositions of her citizens. The more Southern States,
from various circumstances, may not think themselves much interested
in the encouragement of navigation. They may prefer a system which
would give unlimited scope to all nations to be the carriers as well
as the purchasers of their commodities. Pennsylvania may not choose to
confound her interests in a connection so adverse to her policy. As
she must at all events be a frontier, she may deem it most consistent
with her safety to have her exposed side turned towards the weaker
power of the Southern, rather than towards the stronger power of the
Northern, Confederacy. This would give her the fairest chance to avoid
being the Flanders of America. Whatever may be the determination of
Pennsylvania, if the Northern Confederacy includes New Jersey, there
is no likelihood of more than one confederacy to the south of that
State.

Nothing can be more evident than that the thirteen States will be able
to support a national government better than one half, or one third,
or any number less than the whole. This reflection must have great
weight in obviating that objection to the proposed plan, which is
founded on the principle of expense; an objection, however, which,
when we come to take a nearer view of it, will appear in every light
to stand on mistaken ground.

If, in addition to the consideration of a plurality of civil lists, we
take into view the number of persons who must necessarily be employed
to guard the inland communication between the different confederacies
against illicit trade, and who in time will infallibly spring up out
of the necessities of revenue; and if we also take into view the
military establishments which it has been shown would unavoidably
result from the jealousies and conflicts of the several nations into
which the States would be divided, we shall clearly discover that a
separation would be not less injurious to the economy, than to the
tranquillity, commerce, revenue, and liberty of every part.
IN THE course of the preceding papers, I have endeavored, my
fellow-citizens, to place before you, in a clear and convincing light,
the importance of Union to your political safety and happiness. I have
unfolded to you a complication of dangers to which you would be
exposed, should you permit that sacred knot which binds the people of
America together be severed or dissolved by ambition or by avarice, by
jealousy or by misrepresentation. In the sequel of the inquiry through
which I propose to accompany you, the truths intended to be inculcated
will receive further confirmation from facts and arguments hitherto
unnoticed. If the road over which you will still have to pass should
in some places appear to you tedious or irksome, you will recollect
that you are in quest of information on a subject the most momentous
which can engage the attention of a free people, that the field
through which you have to travel is in itself spacious, and that the
difficulties of the journey have been unnecessarily increased by the
mazes with which sophistry has beset the way. It will be my aim to
remove the obstacles from your progress in as compendious a manner as
it can be done, without sacrificing utility to despatch.

In pursuance of the plan which I have laid down for the discussion of
the subject, the point next in order to be examined is the
"insufficiency of the present Confederation to the preservation of the
Union." It may perhaps be asked what need there is of reasoning or
proof to illustrate a position which is not either controverted or
doubted, to which the understandings and feelings of all classes of
men assent, and which in substance is admitted by the opponents as
well as by the friends of the new Constitution. It must in truth be
acknowledged that, however these may differ in other respects, they in
general appear to harmonize in this sentiment, at least, that there
are material imperfections in our national system, and that something
is necessary to be done to rescue us from impending anarchy. The facts
that support this opinion are no longer objects of speculation. They
have forced themselves upon the sensibility of the people at large,
and have at length extorted from those, whose mistaken policy has had
the principal share in precipitating the extremity at which we are
arrived, a reluctant confession of the reality of those defects in the
scheme of our federal government, which have been long pointed out and
regretted by the intelligent friends of the Union.

We may indeed with propriety be said to have reached almost the last
stage of national humiliation. There is scarcely anything that can
wound the pride or degrade the character of an independent nation
which we do not experience. Are there engagements to the performance
of which we are held by every tie respectable among men? These are the
subjects of constant and unblushing violation. Do we owe debts to
foreigners and to our own citizens contracted in a time of imminent
peril for the preservation of our political existence? These remain
without any proper or satisfactory provision for their discharge. Have
we valuable territories and important posts in the possession of a
foreign power which, by express stipulations, ought long since to have
been surrendered? These are still retained, to the prejudice of our
interests, not less than of our rights. Are we in a condition to
resent or to repel the aggression? We have neither troops, nor
treasury, nor government. [1] Are we even in a condition to
remonstrate with dignity? The just imputations on our own faith, in
respect to the same treaty, ought first to be removed. Are we entitled
by nature and compact to a free participation in the navigation of the
Mississippi? Spain excludes us from it. Is public credit an
indispensable resource in time of public danger? We seem to have
abandoned its cause as desperate and irretrievable. Is commerce of
importance to national wealth? Ours is at the lowest point of
declension. Is respectability in the eyes of foreign powers a
safeguard against foreign encroachments? The imbecility of our
government even forbids them to treat with us. Our ambassadors abroad
are the mere pageants of mimic sovereignty. Is a violent and unnatural
decrease in the value of land a symptom of national distress? The
price of improved land in most parts of the country is much lower than
can be accounted for by the quantity of waste land at market, and can
only be fully explained by that want of private and public confidence,
which are so alarmingly prevalent among all ranks, and which have a
direct tendency to depreciate property of every kind. Is private
credit the friend and patron of industry? That most useful kind which
relates to borrowing and lending is reduced within the narrowest
limits, and this still more from an opinion of insecurity than from
the scarcity of money. To shorten an enumeration of particulars which
can afford neither pleasure nor instruction, it may in general be
demanded, what indication is there of national disorder, poverty, and
insignificance that could befall a community so peculiarly blessed
with natural advantages as we are, which does not form a part of the
dark catalogue of our public misfortunes?  This is the melancholy
situation to which we have been brought by those very maxims and
councils which would now deter us from adopting the proposed
Constitution; and which, not content with having conducted us to the
brink of a precipice, seem resolved to plunge us into the abyss that
awaits us below. Here, my countrymen, impelled by every motive that
ought to influence an enlightened people, let us make a firm stand for
our safety, our tranquillity, our dignity, our reputation. Let us at
last break the fatal charm which has too long seduced us from the
paths of felicity and prosperity.

It is true, as has been before observed that facts, too stubborn to be
resisted, have produced a species of general assent to the abstract
proposition that there exist material defects in our national system;
but the usefulness of the concession, on the part of the old
adversaries of federal measures, is destroyed by a strenuous
opposition to a remedy, upon the only principles that can give it a
chance of success. While they admit that the government of the United
States is destitute of energy, they contend against conferring upon it
those powers which are requisite to supply that energy. They seem
still to aim at things repugnant and irreconcilable; at an
augmentation of federal authority, without a diminution of State
authority; at sovereignty in the Union, and complete independence in
the members. They still, in fine, seem to cherish with blind devotion
the political monster of an imperium in imperio. This renders a full
display of the principal defects of the Confederation necessary, in
order to show that the evils we experience do not proceed from minute
or partial imperfections, but from fundamental errors in the structure
of the building, which cannot be amended otherwise than by an
alteration in the first principles and main pillars of the fabric.

The great and radical vice in the construction of the existing
Confederation is in the principle of LEGISLATION for STATES or
GOVERNMENTS, in their CORPORATE or COLLECTIVE CAPACITIES, and as
contradistinguished from the INDIVIDUALS of which they consist. Though
this principle does not run through all the powers delegated to the
Union, yet it pervades and governs those on which the efficacy of the
rest depends. Except as to the rule of appointment, the United States
has an indefinite discretion to make requisitions for men and money;
but they have no authority to raise either, by regulations extending
to the individual citizens of America. The consequence of this is,
that though in theory their resolutions concerning those objects are
laws, constitutionally binding on the members of the Union, yet in
practice they are mere recommendations which the States observe or
disregard at their option.

It is a singular instance of the capriciousness of the human mind,
that after all the admonitions we have had from experience on this
head, there should still be found men who object to the new
Constitution, for deviating from a principle which has been found the
bane of the old, and which is in itself evidently incompatible with
the idea of GOVERNMENT; a principle, in short, which, if it is to be
executed at all, must substitute the violent and sanguinary agency of
the sword to the mild influence of the magistracy.

There is nothing absurd or impracticable in the idea of a league or
alliance between independent nations for certain defined purposes
precisely stated in a treaty regulating all the details of time,
place, circumstance, and quantity; leaving nothing to future
discretion; and depending for its execution on the good faith of the
parties. Compacts of this kind exist among all civilized nations,
subject to the usual vicissitudes of peace and war, of observance and
non-observance, as the interests or passions of the contracting powers
dictate. In the early part of the present century there was an
epidemical rage in Europe for this species of compacts, from which the
politicians of the times fondly hoped for benefits which were never
realized. With a view to establishing the equilibrium of power and the
peace of that part of the world, all the resources of negotiation were
exhausted, and triple and quadruple alliances were formed; but they
were scarcely formed before they were broken, giving an instructive
but afflicting lesson to mankind, how little dependence is to be
placed on treaties which have no other sanction than the obligations
of good faith, and which oppose general considerations of peace and
justice to the impulse of any immediate interest or passion.

If the particular States in this country are disposed to stand in a
similar relation to each other, and to drop the project of a general
DISCRETIONARY SUPERINTENDENCE, the scheme would indeed be pernicious,
and would entail upon us all the mischiefs which have been enumerated
under the first head; but it would have the merit of being, at least,
consistent and practicable Abandoning all views towards a confederate
government, this would bring us to a simple alliance offensive and
defensive; and would place us in a situation to be alternate friends
and enemies of each other, as our mutual jealousies and rivalships,
nourished by the intrigues of foreign nations, should prescribe to us.

But if we are unwilling to be placed in this perilous situation; if we
still will adhere to the design of a national government, or, which is
the same thing, of a superintending power, under the direction of a
common council, we must resolve to incorporate into our plan those
ingredients which may be considered as forming the characteristic
difference between a league and a government; we must extend the
authority of the Union to the persons of the citizens, --the only
proper objects of government.

Government implies the power of making laws. It is essential to the
idea of a law, that it be attended with a sanction; or, in other
words, a penalty or punishment for disobedience. If there be no
penalty annexed to disobedience, the resolutions or commands which
pretend to be laws will, in fact, amount to nothing more than advice
or recommendation. This penalty, whatever it may be, can only be
inflicted in two ways: by the agency of the courts and ministers of
justice, or by military force; by the COERCION of the magistracy, or
by the COERCION of arms. The first kind can evidently apply only to
men; the last kind must of necessity, be employed against bodies
politic, or communities, or States. It is evident that there is no
process of a court by which the observance of the laws can, in the
last resort, be enforced. Sentences may be denounced against them for
violations of their duty; but these sentences can only be carried into
execution by the sword. In an association where the general authority
is confined to the collective bodies of the communities, that compose
it, every breach of the laws must involve a state of war; and military
execution must become the only instrument of civil obedience. Such a
state of things can certainly not deserve the name of government, nor
would any prudent man choose to commit his happiness to it.

There was a time when we were told that breaches, by the States, of
the regulations of the federal authority were not to be expected; that
a sense of common interest would preside over the conduct of the
respective members, and would beget a full compliance with all the
constitutional requisitions of the Union. This language, at the
present day, would appear as wild as a great part of what we now hear
from the same quarter will be thought, when we shall have received
further lessons from that best oracle of wisdom, experience. It at all
times betrayed an ignorance of the true springs by which human conduct
is actuated, and belied the original inducements to the establishment
of civil power. Why has government been instituted at all? Because the
passions of men will not conform to the dictates of reason and
justice, without constraint. Has it been found that bodies of men act
with more rectitude or greater disinterestedness than individuals? The
contrary of this has been inferred by all accurate observers of the
conduct of mankind; and the inference is founded upon obvious
reasons. Regard to reputation has a less active influence, when the
infamy of a bad action is to be divided among a number than when it is
to fall singly upon one. A spirit of faction, which is apt to mingle
its poison in the deliberations of all bodies of men, will often hurry
the persons of whom they are composed into improprieties and excesses,
for which they would blush in a private capacity.

In addition to all this, there is, in the nature of sovereign power,
an impatience of control, that disposes those who are invested with
the exercise of it, to look with an evil eye upon all external
attempts to restrain or direct its operations. From this spirit it
happens, that in every political association which is formed upon the
principle of uniting in a common interest a number of lesser
sovereignties, there will be found a kind of eccentric tendency in the
subordinate or inferior orbs, by the operation of which there will be
a perpetual effort in each to fly off from the common centre. This
tendency is not difficult to be accounted for. It has its origin in
the love of power. Power controlled or abridged is almost always the
rival and enemy of that power by which it is controlled or
abridged. This simple proposition will teach us how little reason
there is to expect, that the persons intrusted with the administration
of the affairs of the particular members of a confederacy will at all
times be ready, with perfect good-humor, and an unbiased regard to the
public weal, to execute the resolutions or decrees of the general
authority. The reverse of this results from the constitution of human
nature.

If, therefore, the measures of the Confederacy cannot be executed
without the intervention of the particular administrations, there will
be little prospect of their being executed at all. The rulers of the
respective members, whether they have a constitutional right to do it
or not, will undertake to judge of the propriety of the measures
themselves. They will consider the conformity of the thing proposed or
required to their immediate interests or aims; the momentary
conveniences or inconveniences that would attend its adoption. All
this will be done; and in a spirit of interested and suspicious
scrutiny, without that knowledge of national circumstances and reasons
of state, which is essential to a right judgment, and with that strong
predilection in favor of local objects, which can hardly fail to
mislead the decision. The same process must be repeated in every
member of which the body is constituted; and the execution of the
plans, framed by the councils of the whole, will always fluctuate on
the discretion of the ill-informed and prejudiced opinion of every
part. Those who have been conversant in the proceedings of popular
assemblies; who have seen how difficult it often is, where there is no
exterior pressure of circumstances, to bring them to harmonious
resolutions on important points, will readily conceive how impossible
it must be to induce a number of such assemblies, deliberating at a
distance from each other, at different times, and under different
impressions, long to co-operate in the same views and pursuits.

In our case, the concurrence of thirteen distinct sovereign wills is
requisite, under the Confederation, to the complete execution of every
important measure that proceeds from the Union. It has happened as was
to have been foreseen. The measures of the Union have not been
executed; the delinquencies of the States have, step by step, matured
themselves to an extreme, which has, at length, arrested all the
wheels of the national government, and brought them to an awful
stand. Congress at this time scarcely possess the means of keeping up
the forms of administration, till the States can have time to agree
upon a more substantial substitute for the present shadow of a federal
government. Things did not come to this desperate extremity at
once. The causes which have been specified produced at first only
unequal and disproportionate degrees of compliance with the
requisitions of the Union. The greater deficiencies of some States
furnished the pretext of example and the temptation of interest to the
complying, or to the least delinquent States. Why should we do more in
proportion than those who are embarked with us in the same political
voyage? Why should we consent to bear more than our proper share of
the common burden? These were suggestions which human selfishness
could not withstand, and which even speculative men, who looked
forward to remote consequences, could not, without hesitation,
combat. Each State, yielding to the persuasive voice of immediate
interest or convenience, has successively withdrawn its support, till
the frail and tottering edifice seems ready to fall upon our heads,
and to crush us beneath its ruins.
AN OBJECTION, of a nature different from that which has been stated
and answered, in my last address, may perhaps be likewise urged
against the principle of legislation for the individual citizens of
America. It may be said that it would tend to render the government of
the Union too powerful, and to enable it to absorb those residuary
authorities, which it might be judged proper to leave with the States
for local purposes. Allowing the utmost latitude to the love of power
which any reasonable man can require, I confess I am at a loss to
discover what temptation the persons intrusted with the administration
of the general government could ever feel to divest the States of the
authorities of that description. The regulation of the mere domestic
police of a State appears to me to hold out slender allurements to
ambition. Commerce, finance, negotiation, and war seem to comprehend
all the objects which have charms for minds governed by that passion;
and all the powers necessary to those objects ought, in the first
instance, to be lodged in the national depository. The administration
of private justice between the citizens of the same State, the
supervision of agriculture and of other concerns of a similar nature,
all those things, in short, which are proper to be provided for by
local legislation, can never be desirable cares of a general
jurisdiction. It is therefore improbable that there should exist a
disposition in the federal councils to usurp the powers with which
they are connected; because the attempt to exercise those powers would
be as troublesome as it would be nugatory; and the possession of them,
for that reason, would contribute nothing to the dignity, to the
importance, or to the splendor of the national government.

But let it be admitted, for argument's sake, that mere wantonness and
lust of domination would be sufficient to beget that disposition;
still it may be safely affirmed, that the sense of the constituent
body of the national representatives, or, in other words, the people
of the several States, would control the indulgence of so extravagant
an appetite. It will always be far more easy for the State governments
to encroach upon the national authorities than for the national
government to encroach upon the State authorities. The proof of this
proposition turns upon the greater degree of influence which the State
governments if they administer their affairs with uprightness and
prudence, will generally possess over the people; a circumstance which
at the same time teaches us that there is an inherent and intrinsic
weakness in all federal constitutions; and that too much pains cannot
be taken in their organization, to give them all the force which is
compatible with the principles of liberty.

The superiority of influence in favor of the particular governments
would result partly from the diffusive construction of the national
government, but chiefly from the nature of the objects to which the
attention of the State administrations would be directed.

It is a known fact in human nature, that its affections are commonly
weak in proportion to the distance or diffusiveness of the
object. Upon the same principle that a man is more attached to his
family than to his neighborhood, to his neighborhood than to the
community at large, the people of each State would be apt to feel a
stronger bias towards their local governments than towards the
government of the Union; unless the force of that principle should be
destroyed by a much better administration of the latter.

This strong propensity of the human heart would find powerful
auxiliaries in the objects of State regulation.

The variety of more minute interests, which will necessarily fall
under the superintendence of the local administrations, and which will
form so many rivulets of influence, running through every part of the
society, cannot be particularized, without involving a detail too
tedious and uninteresting to compensate for the instruction it might
afford.

There is one transcendant advantage belonging to the province of the
State governments, which alone suffices to place the matter in a clear
and satisfactory light,--I mean the ordinary administration of
criminal and civil justice. This, of all others, is the most powerful,
most universal, and most attractive source of popular obedience and
attachment. It is that which, being the immediate and visible guardian
of life and property, having its benefits and its terrors in constant
activity before the public eye, regulating all those personal
interests and familiar concerns to which the sensibility of
individuals is more immediately awake, contributes, more than any
other circumstance, to impressing upon the minds of the people,
affection, esteem, and reverence towards the government. This great
cement of society, which will diffuse itself almost wholly through the
channels of the particular governments, independent of all other
causes of influence, would insure them so decided an empire over their
respective citizens as to render them at all times a complete
counterpoise, and, not unfrequently, dangerous rivals to the power of
the Union.

The operations of the national government, on the other hand, falling
less immediately under the observation of the mass of the citizens,
the benefits derived from it will chiefly be perceived and attended to
by speculative men. Relating to more general interests, they will be
less apt to come home to the feelings of the people; and, in
proportion, less likely to inspire an habitual sense of obligation,
and an active sentiment of attachment.

The reasoning on this head has been abundantly exemplified by the
experience of all federal constitutions with which we are acquainted,
and of all others which have borne the least analogy to them.

Though the ancient feudal systems were not, strictly speaking,
confederacies, yet they partook of the nature of that species of
association. There was a common head, chieftain, or sovereign, whose
authority extended over the whole nation; and a number of subordinate
vassals, or feudatories, who had large portions of land allotted to
them, and numerous trains of INFERIOR vassals or retainers, who
occupied and cultivated that land upon the tenure of fealty or
obedience, to the persons of whom they held it. Each principal vassal
was a kind of sovereign, within his particular demesnes. The
consequences of this situation were a continual opposition to
authority of the sovereign, and frequent wars between the great barons
or chief feudatories themselves. The power of the head of the nation
was commonly too weak, either to preserve the public peace, or to
protect the people against the oppressions of their immediate
lords. This period of European affairs is emphatically styled by
historians, the times of feudal anarchy.

When the sovereign happened to be a man of vigorous and warlike temper
and of superior abilities, he would acquire a personal weight and
influence, which answered, for the time, the purpose of a more regular
authority. But in general, the power of the barons triumphed over that
of the prince; and in many instances his dominion was entirely thrown
off, and the great fiefs were erected into independent principalities
or States. In those instances in which the monarch finally prevailed
over his vassals, his success was chiefly owing to the tyranny of
those vassals over their dependents. The barons, or nobles, equally
the enemies of the sovereign and the oppressors of the common people,
were dreaded and detested by both; till mutual danger and mutual
interest effected a union between them fatal to the power of the
aristocracy. Had the nobles, by a conduct of clemency and justice,
preserved the fidelity and devotion of their retainers and followers,
the contests between them and the prince must almost always have ended
in their favor, and in the abridgment or subversion of the royal
authority.

This is not an assertion founded merely in speculation or
conjecture. Among other illustrations of its truth which might be
cited, Scotland will furnish a cogent example. The spirit of clanship
which was, at an early day, introduced into that kingdom, uniting the
nobles and their dependants by ties equivalent to those of kindred,
rendered the aristocracy a constant overmatch for the power of the
monarch, till the incorporation with England subdued its fierce and
ungovernable spirit, and reduced it within those rules of
subordination which a more rational and more energetic system of civil
polity had previously established in the latter kingdom.

The separate governments in a confederacy may aptly be compared with
the feudal baronies; with this advantage in their favor, that from the
reasons already explained, they will generally possess the confidence
and good-will of the people, and with so important a support, will be
able effectually to oppose all encroachments of the national
government. It will be well if they are not able to counteract its
legitimate and necessary authority. The points of similitude consist
in the rivalship of power, applicable to both, and in the
CONCENTRATION of large portions of the strength of the community into
particular DEPOSITS, in one case at the disposal of individuals, in
the other case at the disposal of political bodies.

A concise review of the events that have attended confederate
governments will further illustrate this important doctrine; an
inattention to which has been the great source of our political
mistakes, and has given our jealousy a direction to the wrong
side. This review shall form the subject of some ensuing papers.
HAVING in the three last numbers taken a summary review of the
principal circumstances and events which have depicted the genius and
fate of other confederate governments, I shall now proceed in the
enumeration of the most important of those defects which have hitherto
disappointed our hopes from the system established among ourselves. To
form a safe and satisfactory judgment of the proper remedy, it is
absolutely necessary that we should be well acquainted with the extent
and malignity of the disease.

The next most palpable defect of the subsisting Confederation, is the
total want of a SANCTION to its laws. The United States, as now
composed, have no powers to exact obedience, or punish disobedience to
their resolutions, either by pecuniary mulcts, by a suspension or
divestiture of privileges, or by any other constitutional mode. There
is no express delegation of authority to them to use force against
delinquent members; and if such a right should be ascribed to the
federal head, as resulting from the nature of the social compact
between the States, it must be by inference and construction, in the
face of that part of the second article, by which it is declared,
"that each State shall retain every power, jurisdiction, and right,
not EXPRESSLY delegated to the United States in Congress assembled."
There is, doubtless, a striking absurdity in supposing that a right of
this kind does not exist, but we are reduced to the dilemma either of
embracing that supposition, preposterous as it may seem, or of
contravening or explaining away a provision, which has been of late a
repeated theme of the eulogies of those who oppose the new
Constitution; and the want of which, in that plan, has been the
subject of much plausible animadversion, and severe criticism. If we
are unwilling to impair the force of this applauded provision, we
shall be obliged to conclude, that the United States afford the
extraordinary spectacle of a government destitute even of the shadow
of constitutional power to enforce the execution of its own laws. It
will appear, from the specimens which have been cited, that the
American Confederacy, in this particular, stands discriminated from
every other institution of a similar kind, and exhibits a new and
unexampled phenomenon in the political world.

The want of a mutual guaranty of the State governments is another
capital imperfection in the federal plan. There is nothing of this
kind declared in the articles that compose it; and to imply a tacit
guaranty from considerations of utility, would be a still more
flagrant departure from the clause which has been mentioned, than to
imply a tacit power of coercion from the like considerations.

The want of a guaranty, though it might in its consequences endanger
the Union, does not so immediately attack its existence as the want of
a constitutional sanction to its laws.

Without a guaranty the assistance to be derived from the Union in
repelling those domestic dangers which may sometimes threaten the
existence of the State constitutions, must be renounced. Usurpation
may rear its crest in each State, and trample upon the liberties of
the people, while the national government could legally do nothing
more than behold its encroachments with indignation and regret. A
successful faction may erect a tyranny on the ruins of order and law,
while no succor could constitutionally be afforded by the Union to the
friends and supporters of the government. The tempestuous situation
from which Massachusetts has scarcely emerged, evinces that dangers of
this kind are not merely speculative. Who can determine what might
have been the issue of her late convulsions, if the malcontents had
been headed by a Caesar or by a Cromwell? Who can predict what effect
a despotism, established in Massachusetts, would have upon the
liberties of New Hampshire or Rhode Island, of Connecticut or New
York?  The inordinate pride of State importance has suggested to some
minds an objection to the principle of a guaranty in the federal
government, as involving an officious interference in the domestic
concerns of the members. A scruple of this kind would deprive us of
one of the principal advantages to be expected from union, and can
only flow from a misapprehension of the nature of the provision
itself. It could be no impediment to reforms of the State constitution
by a majority of the people in a legal and peaceable mode. This right
would remain undiminished. The guaranty could only operate against
changes to be effected by violence. Towards the preventions of
calamities of this kind, too many checks cannot be provided. The peace
of society and the stability of government depend absolutely on the
efficacy of the precautions adopted on this head. Where the whole
power of the government is in the hands of the people, there is the
less pretense for the use of violent remedies in partial or occasional
distempers of the State. The natural cure for an ill-administration,
in a popular or representative constitution, is a change of men. A
guaranty by the national authority would be as much levelled against
the usurpations of rulers as against the ferments and outrages of
faction and sedition in the community.

The principle of regulating the contributions of the States to the
common treasury by QUOTAS is another fundamental error in the
Confederation. Its repugnancy to an adequate supply of the national
exigencies has been already pointed out, and has sufficiently appeared
from the trial which has been made of it. I speak of it now solely
with a view to equality among the States. Those who have been
accustomed to contemplate the circumstances which produce and
constitute national wealth, must be satisfied that there is no common
standard or barometer by which the degrees of it can be
ascertained. Neither the value of lands, nor the numbers of the
people, which have been successively proposed as the rule of State
contributions, has any pretension to being a just representative. If
we compare the wealth of the United Netherlands with that of Russia or
Germany, or even of France, and if we at the same time compare the
total value of the lands and the aggregate population of that
contracted district with the total value of the lands and the
aggregate population of the immense regions of either of the three
last-mentioned countries, we shall at once discover that there is no
comparison between the proportion of either of these two objects and
that of the relative wealth of those nations. If the like parallel
were to be run between several of the American States, it would
furnish a like result. Let Virginia be contrasted with North Carolina,
Pennsylvania with Connecticut, or Maryland with New Jersey, and we
shall be convinced that the respective abilities of those States, in
relation to revenue, bear little or no analogy to their comparative
stock in lands or to their comparative population. The position may be
equally illustrated by a similar process between the counties of the
same State. No man who is acquainted with the State of New York will
doubt that the active wealth of King's County bears a much greater
proportion to that of Montgomery than it would appear to be if we
should take either the total value of the lands or the total number of
the people as a criterion!  The wealth of nations depends upon an
infinite variety of causes. Situation, soil, climate, the nature of
the productions, the nature of the government, the genius of the
citizens, the degree of information they possess, the state of
commerce, of arts, of industry, these circumstances and many more, too
complex, minute, or adventitious to admit of a particular
specification, occasion differences hardly conceivable in the relative
opulence and riches of different countries. The consequence clearly is
that there can be no common measure of national wealth, and, of
course, no general or stationary rule by which the ability of a state
to pay taxes can be determined. The attempt, therefore, to regulate
the contributions of the members of a confederacy by any such rule,
cannot fail to be productive of glaring inequality and extreme
oppression.

This inequality would of itself be sufficient in America to work the
eventual destruction of the Union, if any mode of enforcing a
compliance with its requisitions could be devised. The suffering
States would not long consent to remain associated upon a principle
which distributes the public burdens with so unequal a hand, and which
was calculated to impoverish and oppress the citizens of some States,
while those of others would scarcely be conscious of the small
proportion of the weight they were required to sustain. This, however,
is an evil inseparable from the principle of quotas and requisitions.

There is no method of steering clear of this inconvenience, but by
authorizing the national government to raise its own revenues in its
own way. Imposts, excises, and, in general, all duties upon articles
of consumption, may be compared to a fluid, which will, in time, find
its level with the means of paying them. The amount to be contributed
by each citizen will in a degree be at his own option, and can be
regulated by an attention to his resources. The rich may be
extravagant, the poor can be frugal; and private oppression may always
be avoided by a judicious selection of objects proper for such
impositions. If inequalities should arise in some States from duties
on particular objects, these will, in all probability, be
counterbalanced by proportional inequalities in other States, from the
duties on other objects. In the course of time and things, an
equilibrium, as far as it is attainable in so complicated a subject,
will be established everywhere. Or, if inequalities should still
exist, they would neither be so great in their degree, so uniform in
their operation, nor so odious in their appearance, as those which
would necessarily spring from quotas, upon any scale that can possibly
be devised.

It is a signal advantage of taxes on articles of consumption, that
they contain in their own nature a security against excess. They
prescribe their own limit; which cannot be exceeded without defeating
the end proposed, that is, an extension of the revenue. When applied
to this object, the saying is as just as it is witty, that, "in
political arithmetic, two and two do not always make four ." If duties
are too high, they lessen the consumption; the collection is eluded;
and the product to the treasury is not so great as when they are
confined within proper and moderate bounds. This forms a complete
barrier against any material oppression of the citizens by taxes of
this class, and is itself a natural limitation of the power of
imposing them.

Impositions of this kind usually fall under the denomination of
indirect taxes, and must for a long time constitute the chief part of
the revenue raised in this country. Those of the direct kind, which
principally relate to land and buildings, may admit of a rule of
apportionment. Either the value of land, or the number of the people,
may serve as a standard. The state of agriculture and the populousness
of a country have been considered as nearly connected with each
other. And, as a rule, for the purpose intended, numbers, in the view
of simplicity and certainty, are entitled to a preference. In every
country it is a herculean task to obtain a valuation of the land; in a
country imperfectly settled and progressive in improvement, the
difficulties are increased almost to impracticability. The expense of
an accurate valuation is, in all situations, a formidable
objection. In a branch of taxation where no limits to the discretion
of the government are to be found in the nature of things, the
establishment of a fixed rule, not incompatible with the end, may be
attended with fewer inconveniences than to leave that discretion
altogether at large.
IN ADDITION to the defects already enumerated in the existing federal
system, there are others of not less importance, which concur in
rendering it altogether unfit for the administration of the affairs of
the Union.

The want of a power to regulate commerce is by all parties allowed to
be of the number. The utility of such a power has been anticipated
under the first head of our inquiries; and for this reason, as well as
from the universal conviction entertained upon the subject, little
need be added in this place. It is indeed evident, on the most
superficial view, that there is no object, either as it respects the
interests of trade or finance, that more strongly demands a federal
superintendence. The want of it has already operated as a bar to the
formation of beneficial treaties with foreign powers, and has given
occasions of dissatisfaction between the States. No nation acquainted
with the nature of our political association would be unwise enough to
enter into stipulations with the United States, by which they conceded
privileges of any importance to them, while they were apprised that
the engagements on the part of the Union might at any moment be
violated by its members, and while they found from experience that
they might enjoy every advantage they desired in our markets, without
granting us any return but such as their momentary convenience might
suggest. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at that Mr. Jenkinson,
in ushering into the House of Commons a bill for regulating the
temporary intercourse between the two countries, should preface its
introduction by a declaration that similar provisions in former bills
had been found to answer every purpose to the commerce of Great
Britain, and that it would be prudent to persist in the plan until it
should appear whether the American government was likely or not to
acquire greater consistency. [1] Several States have endeavored, by
separate prohibitions, restrictions, and exclusions, to influence the
conduct of that kingdom in this particular, but the want of concert,
arising from the want of a general authority and from clashing and
dissimilar views in the State, has hitherto frustrated every
experiment of the kind, and will continue to do so as long as the same
obstacles to a uniformity of measures continue to exist.

The interfering and unneighborly regulations of some States, contrary
to the true spirit of the Union, have, in different instances, given
just cause of umbrage and complaint to others, and it is to be feared
that examples of this nature, if not restrained by a national control,
would be multiplied and extended till they became not less serious
sources of animosity and discord than injurious impediments to the
intcrcourse between the different parts of the Confederacy. "The
commerce of the German empire [2] is in continual trammels from the
multiplicity of the duties which the several princes and states exact
upon the merchandises passing through their territories, by means of
which the fine streams and navigable rivers with which Germany is so
happily watered are rendered almost useless." Though the genius of the
people of this country might never permit this description to be
strictly applicable to us, yet we may reasonably expect, from the
gradual conflicts of State regulations, that the citizens of each
would at length come to be considered and treated by the others in no
better light than that of foreigners and aliens.

The power of raising armies, by the most obvious construction of the
articles of the Confederation, is merely a power of making
requisitions upon the States for quotas of men. This practice in the
course of the late war, was found replete with obstructions to a
vigorous and to an economical system of defense. It gave birth to a
competition between the States which created a kind of auction for
men. In order to furnish the quotas required of them, they outbid each
other till bounties grew to an enormous and insupportable size. The
hope of a still further increase afforded an inducement to those who
were disposed to serve to procrastinate their enlistment, and
disinclined them from engaging for any considerable periods. Hence,
slow and scanty levies of men, in the most critical emergencies of our
affairs; short enlistments at an unparalleled expense; continual
fluctuations in the troops, ruinous to their discipline and subjecting
the public safety frequently to the perilous crisis of a disbanded
army. Hence, also, those oppressive expedients for raising men which
were upon several occasions practiced, and which nothing but the
enthusiasm of liberty would have induced the people to endure.

This method of raising troops is not more unfriendly to economy and
vigor than it is to an equal distribution of the burden. The States
near the seat of war, influenced by motives of self-preservation, made
efforts to furnish their quotas, which even exceeded their abilities;
while those at a distance from danger were, for the most part, as
remiss as the others were diligent, in their exertions. The immediate
pressure of this inequality was not in this case, as in that of the
contributions of money, alleviated by the hope of a final
liquidation. The States which did not pay their proportions of money
might at least be charged with their deficiencies; but no account
could be formed of the deficiencies in the supplies of men. We shall
not, however, see much reason to reget the want of this hope, when we
consider how little prospect there is, that the most delinquent States
will ever be able to make compensation for their pecuniary
failures. The system of quotas and requisitions, whether it be applied
to men or money, is, in every view, a system of imbecility in the
Union, and of inequality and injustice among the members.

The right of equal suffrage among the States is another exceptionable
part of the Confederation. Every idea of proportion and every rule of
fair representation conspire to condemn a principle, which gives to
Rhode Island an equal weight in the scale of power with Massachusetts,
or Connecticut, or New York; and to Deleware an equal voice in the
national deliberations with Pennsylvania, or Virginia, or North
Carolina. Its operation contradicts the fundamental maxim of
republican government, which requires that the sense of the majority
should prevail. Sophistry may reply, that sovereigns are equal, and
that a majority of the votes of the States will be a majority of
confederated America. But this kind of logical legerdemain will never
counteract the plain suggestions of justice and common-sense. It may
happen that this majority of States is a small minority of the people
of America [3]; and two thirds of the people of America could not long
be persuaded, upon the credit of artificial distinctions and
syllogistic subtleties, to submit their interests to the management
and disposal of one third. The larger States would after a while
revolt from the idea of receiving the law from the smaller. To
acquiesce in such a privation of their due importance in the political
scale, would be not merely to be insensible to the love of power, but
even to sacrifice the desire of equality. It is neither rational to
expect the first, nor just to require the last. The smaller States,
considering how peculiarly their safety and welfare depend on union,
ought readily to renounce a pretension which, if not relinquished,
would prove fatal to its duration.

It may be objected to this, that not seven but nine States, or two
thirds of the whole number, must consent to the most important
resolutions; and it may be thence inferred that nine States would
always comprehend a majority of the Union. But this does not obviate
the impropriety of an equal vote between States of the most unequal
dimensions and populousness; nor is the inference accurate in point of
fact; for we can enumerate nine States which contain less than a
majority of the people [4]; and it is constitutionally possible that
these nine may give the vote. Besides, there are matters of
considerable moment determinable by a bare majority; and there are
others, concerning which doubts have been entertained, which, if
interpreted in favor of the sufficiency of a vote of seven States,
would extend its operation to interests of the first magnitude. In
addition to this, it is to be observed that there is a probability of
an increase in the number of States, and no provision for a
proportional augmentation of the ratio of votes.

But this is not all: what at first sight may seem a remedy, is, in
reality, a poison. To give a minority a negative upon the majority
(which is always the case where more than a majority is requisite to a
decision), is, in its tendency, to subject the sense of the greater
number to that of the lesser. Congress, from the nonattendance of a
few States, have been frequently in the situation of a Polish diet,
where a single VOTE has been sufficient to put a stop to all their
movements. A sixtieth part of the Union, which is about the proportion
of Delaware and Rhode Island, has several times been able to oppose an
entire bar to its operations. This is one of those refinements which,
in practice, has an effect the reverse of what is expected from it in
theory. The necessity of unanimity in public bodies, or of something
approaching towards it, has been founded upon a supposition that it
would contribute to security. But its real operation is to embarrass
the administration, to destroy the energy of the government, and to
substitute the pleasure, caprice, or artifices of an insignificant,
turbulent, or corrupt junto, to the regular deliberations and
decisions of a respectable majority. In those emergencies of a nation,
in which the goodness or badness, the weakness or strength of its
government, is of the greatest importance, there is commonly a
necessity for action. The public business must, in some way or other,
go forward. If a pertinacious minority can control the opinion of a
majority, respecting the best mode of conducting it, the majority, in
order that something may be done, must conform to the views of the
minority; and thus the sense of the smaller number will overrule that
of the greater, and give a tone to the national proceedings. Hence,
tedious delays; continual negotiation and intrigue; contemptible
compromises of the public good. And yet, in such a system, it is even
happy when such compromises can take place: for upon some occasions
things will not admit of accommodation; and then the measures of
government must be injuriously suspended, or fatally defeated. It is
often, by the impracticability of obtaining the concurrence of the
necessary number of votes, kept in a state of inaction. Its situation
must always savor of weakness, sometimes border upon anarchy.

It is not difficult to discover, that a principle of this kind gives
greater scope to foreign corruption, as well as to domestic faction,
than that which permits the sense of the majority to decide; though
the contrary of this has been presumed. The mistake has proceeded from
not attending with due care to the mischiefs that may be occasioned by
obstructing the progress of government at certain critical
seasons. When the concurrence of a large number is required by the
Constitution to the doing of any national act, we are apt to rest
satisfied that all is safe, because nothing improper will be likely TO
BE DONE, but we forget how much good may be prevented, and how much
ill may be produced, by the power of hindering the doing what may be
necessary, and of keeping affairs in the same unfavorable posture in
which they may happen to stand at particular periods.

Suppose, for instance, we were engaged in a war, in conjunction with
one foreign nation, against another. Suppose the necessity of our
situation demanded peace, and the interest or ambition of our ally led
him to seek the prosecution of the war, with views that might justify
us in making separate terms. In such a state of things, this ally of
ours would evidently find it much easier, by his bribes and intrigues,
to tie up the hands of government from making peace, where two thirds
of all the votes were requisite to that object, than where a simple
majority would suffice. In the first case, he would have to corrupt a
smaller number; in the last, a greater number. Upon the same
principle, it would be much easier for a foreign power with which we
were at war to perplex our councils and embarrass our exertions. And,
in a commercial view, we may be subjected to similar inconveniences. A
nation, with which we might have a treaty of commerce, could with much
greater facility prevent our forming a connection with her competitor
in trade, though such a connection should be ever so beneficial to
ourselves.

Evils of this description ought not to be regarded as imaginary. One
of the weak sides of republics, among their numerous advantages, is
that they afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption. An
hereditary monarch, though often disposed to sacrifice his subjects to
his ambition, has so great a personal interest in the government and
in the external glory of the nation, that it is not easy for a foreign
power to give him an equivalent for what he would sacrifice by
treachery to the state. The world has accordingly been witness to few
examples of this species of royal prostitution, though there have been
abundant specimens of every other kind.

In republics, persons elevated from the mass of the community, by the
suffrages of their fellow-citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence
and power, may find compensations for betraying their trust, which, to
any but minds animated and guided by superior virtue, may appear to
exceed the proportion of interest they have in the common stock, and
to overbalance the obligations of duty. Hence it is that history
furnishes us with so many mortifying examples of the prevalency of
foreign corruption in republican governments. How much this
contributed to the ruin of the ancient commonwealths has been already
delineated. It is well known that the deputies of the United Provinces
have, in various instances, been purchased by the emissaries of the
neighboring kingdoms. The Earl of Chesterfield (if my memory serves me
right), in a letter to his court, intimates that his success in an
important negotiation must depend on his obtaining a major's
commission for one of those deputies. And in Sweden the parties were
alternately bought by France and England in so barefaced and notorious
a manner that it excited universal disgust in the nation, and was a
principal cause that the most limited monarch in Europe, in a single
day, without tumult, violence, or opposition, became one of the most
absolute and uncontrolled.

A circumstance which crowns the defects of the Confederation remains
yet to be mentioned, the want of a judiciary power. Laws are a dead
letter without courts to expound and define their true meaning and
operation. The treaties of the United States, to have any force at
all, must be considered as part of the law of the land. Their true
import, as far as respects individuals, must, like all other laws, be
ascertained by judicial determinations. To produce uniformity in these
determinations, they ought to be submitted, in the last resort, to one
SUPREME TRIBUNAL. And this tribunal ought to be instituted under the
same authority which forms the treaties themselves. These ingredients
are both indispensable. If there is in each State a court of final
jurisdiction, there may be as many different final determinations on
the same point as there are courts. There are endless diversities in
the opinions of men. We often see not only different courts but the
judges of the came court differing from each other. To avoid the
confusion which would unavoidably result from the contradictory
decisions of a number of independent judicatories, all nations have
found it necessary to establish one court paramount to the rest,
possessing a general superintendence, and authorized to settle and
declare in the last resort a uniform rule of civil justice.

This is the more necessary where the frame of the government is so
compounded that the laws of the whole are in danger of being
contravened by the laws of the parts. In this case, if the particular
tribunals are invested with a right of ultimate jurisdiction, besides
the contradictions to be expected from difference of opinion, there
will be much to fear from the bias of local views and prejudices, and
from the interference of local regulations. As often as such an
interference was to happen, there would be reason to apprehend that
the provisions of the particular laws might be preferred to those of
the general laws; for nothing is more natural to men in office than to
look with peculiar deference towards that authority to which they owe
their official existence. The treaties of the United States, under the
present Constitution, are liable to the infractions of thirteen
different legislatures, and as many different courts of final
jurisdiction, acting under the authority of those legislatures. The
faith, the reputation, the peace of the whole Union, are thus
continually at the mercy of the prejudices, the passions, and the
interests of every member of which it is composed. Is it possible that
foreign nations can either respect or confide in such a government? Is
it possible that the people of America will longer consent to trust
their honor, their happiness, their safety, on so precarious a
foundation?  In this review of the Confederation, I have confined
myself to the exhibition of its most material defects; passing over
those imperfections in its details by which even a great part of the
power intended to be conferred upon it has been in a great measure
rendered abortive. It must be by this time evident to all men of
reflection, who can divest themselves of the prepossessions of
preconceived opinions, that it is a system so radically vicious and
unsound, as to admit not of amendment but by an entire change in its
leading features and characters.

The organization of Congress is itself utterly improper for the
exercise of those powers which are necessary to be deposited in the
Union. A single assembly may be a proper receptacle of those slender,
or rather fettered, authorities, which have been heretofore delegated
to the federal head; but it would be inconsistent with all the
principles of good government, to intrust it with those additional
powers which, even the moderate and more rational adversaries of the
proposed Constitution admit, ought to reside in the United States. If
that plan should not be adopted, and if the necessity of the Union
should be able to withstand the ambitious aims of those men who may
indulge magnificent schemes of personal aggrandizement from its
dissolution, the probability would be, that we should run into the
project of conferring supplementary powers upon Congress, as they are
now constituted; and either the machine, from the intrinsic feebleness
of its structure, will moulder into pieces, in spite of our ill-judged
efforts to prop it; or, by successive augmentations of its force an
energy, as necessity might prompt, we shall finally accumulate, in a
single body, all the most important prerogatives of sovereignty, and
thus entail upon our posterity one of the most execrable forms of
government that human infatuation ever contrived. Thus, we should
create in reality that very tyranny which the adversaries of the new
Constitution either are, or affect to be, solicitous to avert.

It has not a little contributed to the infirmities of the existing
federal system, that it never had a ratification by the
PEOPLE. Resting on no better foundation than the consent of the
several legislatures, it has been exposed to frequent and intricate
questions concerning the validity of its powers, and has, in some
instances, given birth to the enormous doctrine of a right of
legislative repeal. Owing its ratification to the law of a State, it
has been contended that the same authority might repeal the law by
which it was ratified. However gross a heresy it may be to maintain
that a PARTY to a COMPACT has a right to revoke that COMPACT, the
doctrine itself has had respectable advocates. The possibility of a
question of this nature proves the necessity of laying the foundations
of our national government deeper than in the mere sanction of
delegated authority. The fabric of American empire ought to rest on
the solid basis of THE CONSENT OF THE PEOPLE. The streams of national
power ought to flow immediately from that pure, original fountain of
all legitimate authority.
