WE HAVE seen the necessity of the Union, as our bulwark against
foreign danger, as the conservator of peace among ourselves, as the
guardian of our commerce and other common interests, as the only
substitute for those military establishments which have subverted the
liberties of the Old World, and as the proper antidote for the
diseases of faction, which have proved fatal to other popular
governments, and of which alarming symptoms have been betrayed by our
own. All that remains, within this branch of our inquiries, is to take
notice of an objection that may be drawn from the great extent of
country which the Union embraces. A few observations on this subject
will be the more proper, as it is perceived that the adversaries of
the new Constitution are availing themselves of the prevailing
prejudice with regard to the practicable sphere of republican
administration, in order to supply, by imaginary difficulties, the
want of those solid objections which they endeavor in vain to find.

The error which limits republican government to a narrow district has
been unfolded and refuted in preceding papers. I remark here only that
it seems to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the confounding of
a republic with a democracy, applying to the former reasonings drawn
from the nature of the latter. The true distinction between these
forms was also adverted to on a former occasion. It is, that in a
democracy, the people meet and exercise the government in person; in a
republic, they assemble and administer it by their representatives and
agents. A democracy, consequently, will be confined to a small spot. A
republic may be extended over a large region.

To this accidental source of the error may be added the artifice of
some celebrated authors, whose writings have had a great share in
forming the modern standard of political opinions. Being subjects
either of an absolute or limited monarchy, they have endeavored to
heighten the advantages, or palliate the evils of those forms, by
placing in comparison the vices and defects of the republican, and by
citing as specimens of the latter the turbulent democracies of ancient
Greece and modern Italy. Under the confusion of names, it has been an
easy task to transfer to a republic observations applicable to a
democracy only; and among others, the observation that it can never be
established but among a small number of people, living within a small
compass of territory.

Such a fallacy may have been the less perceived, as most of the
popular governments of antiquity were of the democratic species; and
even in modern Europe, to which we owe the great principle of
representation, no example is seen of a government wholly popular, and
founded, at the same time, wholly on that principle. If Europe has the
merit of discovering this great mechanical power in government, by the
simple agency of which the will of the largest political body may be
concentred, and its force directed to any object which the public good
requires, America can claim the merit of making the discovery the
basis of unmixed and extensive republics. It is only to be lamented
that any of her citizens should wish to deprive her of the additional
merit of displaying its full efficacy in the establishment of the
comprehensive system now under her consideration.

As the natural limit of a democracy is that distance from the central
point which will just permit the most remote citizens to assemble as
often as their public functions demand, and will include no greater
number than can join in those functions; so the natural limit of a
republic is that distance from the centre which will barely allow the
representatives to meet as often as may be necessary for the
administration of public affairs. Can it be said that the limits of
the United States exceed this distance? It will not be said by those
who recollect that the Atlantic coast is the longest side of the
Union, that during the term of thirteen years, the representatives of
the States have been almost continually assembled, and that the
members from the most distant States are not chargeable with greater
intermissions of attendance than those from the States in the
neighborhood of Congress.

That we may form a juster estimate with regard to this interesting
subject, let us resort to the actual dimensions of the Union. The
limits, as fixed by the treaty of peace, are: on the east the
Atlantic, on the south the latitude of thirty-one degrees, on the west
the Mississippi, and on the north an irregular line running in some
instances beyond the forty-fifth degree, in others falling as low as
the forty-second. The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below that
latitude. Computing the distance between the thirty-first and
forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to nine hundred and seventy-three
common miles; computing it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to
seven hundred and sixty-four miles and a half. Taking the mean for the
distance, the amount will be eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and
three-fourths. The mean distance from the Atlantic to the Mississippi
does not probably exceed seven hundred and fifty miles. On a
comparison of this extent with that of several countries in Europe,
the practicability of rendering our system commensurate to it appears
to be demonstrable. It is not a great deal larger than Germany, where
a diet representing the whole empire is continually assembled; or than
Poland before the late dismemberment, where another national diet was
the depositary of the supreme power. Passing by France and Spain, we
find that in Great Britain, inferior as it may be in size, the
representatives of the northern extremity of the island have as far to
travel to the national council as will be required of those of the
most remote parts of the Union.

Favorable as this view of the subject may be, some observations remain
which will place it in a light still more satisfactory.

In the first place it is to be remembered that the general government
is not to be charged with the whole power of making and administering
laws. Its jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects, which
concern all the members of the republic, but which are not to be
attained by the separate provisions of any. The subordinate
governments, which can extend their care to all those other subjects
which can be separately provided for, will retain their due authority
and activity. Were it proposed by the plan of the convention to
abolish the governments of the particular States, its adversaries
would have some ground for their objection; though it would not be
difficult to show that if they were abolished the general government
would be compelled, by the principle of self-preservation, to
reinstate them in their proper jurisdiction.

A second observation to be made is that the immediate object of the
federal Constitution is to secure the union of the thirteen primitive
States, which we know to be practicable; and to add to them such other
States as may arise in their own bosoms, or in their neighborhoods,
which we cannot doubt to be equally practicable. The arrangements that
may be necessary for those angles and fractions of our territory which
lie on our northwestern frontier, must be left to those whom further
discoveries and experience will render more equal to the task.

Let it be remarked, in the third place, that the intercourse
throughout the Union will be facilitated by new improvements. Roads
will everywhere be shortened, and kept in better order; accommodations
for travelers will be multiplied and meliorated; an interior
navigation on our eastern side will be opened throughout, or nearly
throughout, the whole extent of the thirteen States. The communication
between the Western and Atlantic districts, and between different
parts of each, will be rendered more and more easy by those numerous
canals with which the beneficence of nature has intersected our
country, and which art finds it so little difficult to connect and
complete.

A fourth and still more important consideration is, that as almost
every State will, on one side or other, be a frontier, and will thus
find, in regard to its safety, an inducement to make some sacrifices
for the sake of the general protection; so the States which lie at the
greatest distance from the heart of the Union, and which, of course,
may partake least of the ordinary circulation of its benefits, will be
at the same time immediately contiguous to foreign nations, and will
consequently stand, on particular occasions, in greatest need of its
strength and resources. It may be inconvenient for Georgia, or the
States forming our western or northeastern borders, to send their
representatives to the seat of government; but they would find it more
so to struggle alone against an invading enemy, or even to support
alone the whole expense of those precautions which may be dictated by
the neighborhood of continual danger. If they should derive less
benefit, therefore, from the Union in some respects than the less
distant States, they will derive greater benefit from it in other
respects, and thus the proper equilibrium will be maintained
throughout.

I submit to you, my fellow-citizens, these considerations, in full
confidence that the good sense which has so often marked your
decisions will allow them their due weight and effect; and that you
will never suffer difficulties, however formidable in appearance, or
however fashionable the error on which they may be founded, to drive
you into the gloomy and perilous scene into which the advocates for
disunion would conduct you. Hearken not to the unnatural voice which
tells you that the people of America, knit together as they are by so
many cords of affection, can no longer live together as members of the
same family; can no longer continue the mutual guardians of their
mutual happiness; can no longer be fellowcitizens of one great,
respectable, and flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice which
petulantly tells you that the form of government recommended for your
adoption is a novelty in the political world; that it has never yet
had a place in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it rashly
attempts what it is impossible to accomplish. No, my countrymen, shut
your ears against this unhallowed language. Shut your hearts against
the poison which it conveys; the kindred blood which flows in the
veins of American citizens, the mingled blood which they have shed in
defense of their sacred rights, consecrate their Union, and excite
horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals, enemies. And if
novelties are to be shunned, believe me, the most alarming of all
novelties, the most wild of all projects, the most rash of all
attempts, is that of rendering us in pieces, in order to preserve our
liberties and promote our happiness. But why is the experiment of an
extended republic to be rejected, merely because it may comprise what
is new? Is it not the glory of the people of America, that, whilst
they have paid a decent regard to the opinions of former times and
other nations, they have not suffered a blind veneration for
antiquity, for custom, or for names, to overrule the suggestions of
their own good sense, the knowledge of their own situation, and the
lessons of their own experience? To this manly spirit, posterity will
be indebted for the possession, and the world for the example, of the
numerous innovations displayed on the American theatre, in favor of
private rights and public happiness. Had no important step been taken
by the leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent could not be
discovered, no government established of which an exact model did not
present itself, the people of the United States might, at this moment
have been numbered among the melancholy victims of misguided councils,
must at best have been laboring under the weight of some of those
forms which have crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind. Happily
for America, happily, we trust, for the whole human race, they pursued
a new and more noble course. They accomplished a revolution which has
no parallel in the annals of human society. They reared the fabrics of
governments which have no model on the face of the globe. They formed
the design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent on their
successors to improve and perpetuate. If their works betray
imperfections, we wonder at the fewness of them. If they erred most in
the structure of the Union, this was the work most difficult to be
executed; this is the work which has been new modelled by the act of
your convention, and it is that act on which you are now to deliberate
and to decide.
A FIFTH class of provisions in favor of the federal authority consists
of the following restrictions on the authority of the several
States:1. "No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or
confederation; grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit
bills of credit; make any thing but gold and silver a legal tender in
payment of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex-post-facto law, or
law impairing the obligation of contracts; or grant any title of
nobility. "The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and
confederations makes a part of the existing articles of Union; and for
reasons which need no explanation, is copied into the new
Constitution. The prohibition of letters of marque is another part of
the old system, but is somewhat extended in the new. According to the
former, letters of marque could be granted by the States after a
declaration of war; according to the latter, these licenses must be
obtained, as well during war as previous to its declaration, from the
government of the United States. This alteration is fully justified by
the advantage of uniformity in all points which relate to foreign
powers; and of immediate responsibility to the nation in all those for
whose conduct the nation itself is to be responsible.

The right of coining money, which is here taken from the States, was
left in their hands by the Confederation, as a concurrent right with
that of Congress, under an exception in favor of the exclusive right
of Congress to regulate the alloy and value. In this instance, also,
the new provision is an improvement on the old. Whilst the alloy and
value depended on the general authority, a right of coinage in the
particular States could have no other effect than to multiply
expensive mints and diversify the forms and weights of the circulating
pieces. The latter inconveniency defeats one purpose for which the
power was originally submitted to the federal head; and as far as the
former might prevent an inconvenient remittance of gold and silver to
the central mint for recoinage, the end can be as well attained by
local mints established under the general authority.

The extension of the prohibition to bills of credit must give pleasure
to every citizen, in proportion to his love of justice and his
knowledge of the true springs of public prosperity. The loss which
America has sustained since the peace, from the pestilent effects of
paper money on the necessary confidence between man and man, on the
necessary confidence in the public councils, on the industry and
morals of the people, and on the character of republican government,
constitutes an enormous debt against the States chargeable with this
unadvised measure, which must long remain unsatisfied; or rather an
accumulation of guilt, which can be expiated no otherwise than by a
voluntary sacrifice on the altar of justice, of the power which has
been the instrument of it. In addition to these persuasive
considerations, it may be observed, that the same reasons which show
the necessity of denying to the States the power of regulating coin,
prove with equal force that they ought not to be at liberty to
substitute a paper medium in the place of coin. Had every State a
right to regulate the value of its coin, there might be as many
different currencies as States, and thus the intercourse among them
would be impeded; retrospective alterations in its value might be
made, and thus the citizens of other States be injured, and
animosities be kindled among the States themselves. The subjects of
foreign powers might suffer from the same cause, and hence the Union
be discredited and embroiled by the indiscretion of a single
member. No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power in the
States to emit paper money, than to coin gold or silver. The power to
make any thing but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts, is
withdrawn from the States, on the same principle with that of issuing
a paper currency. Bills of attainder, ex-post-facto laws, and laws
impairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to the first
principles of the social compact, and to every principle of sound
legislation. The two former are expressly prohibited by the
declarations prefixed to some of the State constitutions, and all of
them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental
charters. Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless, that
additional fences against these dangers ought not to be omitted. Very
properly, therefore, have the convention added this constitutional
bulwark in favor of personal security and private rights; and I am
much deceived if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted
the genuine sentiments as the undoubted interests of their
constituents. The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating
policy which has directed the public councils. They have seen with
regret and indignation that sudden changes and legislative
interferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become jobs in the
hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and snares to the
more-industrious and lessinformed part of the community. They have
seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the first link of
a long chain of repetitions, every subsequent interference being
naturally produced by the effects of the preceding. They very rightly
infer, therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting, which will
banish speculations on public measures, inspire a general prudence and
industry, and give a regular course to the business of society. The
prohibition with respect to titles of nobility is copied from the
articles of Confederation and needs no comment. 2. "No State shall,
without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing its inspection laws, and the net produce of all duties and
imposts laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use
of the treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be
subject to the revision and control of the Congress. No State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep troops
or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact
with another State, or with a foreign power, or engage in war unless
actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of
delay. "The restraint on the power of the States over imports and
exports is enforced by all the arguments which prove the necessity of
submitting the regulation of trade to the federal councils. It is
needless, therefore, to remark further on this head, than that the
manner in which the restraint is qualified seems well calculated at
once to secure to the States a reasonable discretion in providing for
the conveniency of their imports and exports, and to the United States
a reasonable check against the abuse of this discretion.

The remaining particulars of this clause fall within reasonings which
are either so obvious, or have been so fully developed, that they may
be passed over without remark. The SIXTH and last class consists of
the several powers and provisions by which efficacy is given to all
the rest. 1. Of these the first is, the "power to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in
the government of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof. "Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed with more
intemperance than this; yet on a fair investigation of it, no part can
appear more completely invulnerable. Without the SUBSTANCE of this
power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter. Those who object
to the article, therefore, as a part of the Constitution, can only
mean that the FORM of the provision is improper. But have they
considered whether a better form could have been substituted? There
are four other possible methods which the Constitution might have
taken on this subject. They might have copied the second article of
the existing Confederation, which would have prohibited the exercise
of any power not EXPRESSLY delegated; they might have attempted a
positive enumeration of the powers comprehended under the general
terms "necessary and proper"; they might have attempted a negative
enumeration of them, by specifying the powers excepted from the
general definition; they might have been altogether silent on the
subject, leaving these necessary and proper powers to construction and
inference. Had the convention taken the first method of adopting the
second article of Confederation, it is evident that the new Congress
would be continually exposed, as their predecessors have been, to the
alternative of construing the term "EXPRESSLY" with so much rigor, as
to disarm the government of all real authority whatever, or with so
much latitude as to destroy altogether the force of the restriction.

It would be easy to show, if it were necessary, that no important
power, delegated by the articles of Confederation, has been or can be
executed by Congress, without recurring more or less to the doctrine
of CONSTRUCTION or IMPLICATION. As the powers delegated under the new
system are more extensive, the government which is to administer it
would find itself still more distressed with the alternative of
betraying the public interests by doing nothing, or of violating the
Constitution by exercising powers indispensably necessary and proper,
but, at the same time, not EXPRESSLY granted. Had the convention
attempted a positive enumeration of the powers necessary and proper
for carrying their other powers into effect, the attempt would have
involved a complete digest of laws on every subject to which the
Constitution relates; accommodated too, not only to the existing state
of things, but to all the possible changes which futurity may produce;
for in every new application of a general power, the PARTICULAR
POWERS, which are the means of attaining the OBJECT of the general
power, must always necessarily vary with that object, and be often
properly varied whilst the object remains the same.

Had they attempted to enumerate the particular powers or means not
necessary or proper for carrying the general powers into execution,
the task would have been no less chimerical; and would have been
liable to this further objection, that every defect in the enumeration
would have been equivalent to a positive grant of authority. If, to
avoid this consequence, they had attempted a partial enumeration of
the exceptions, and described the residue by the general terms, NOT
NECESSARY OR PROPER, it must have happened that the enumeration would
comprehend a few of the excepted powers only; that these would be such
as would be least likely to be assumed or tolerated, because the
enumeration would of course select such as would be least necessary or
proper; and that the unnecessary and improper powers included in the
residuum, would be less forcibly excepted, than if no partial
enumeration had been made. Had the Constitution been silent on this
head, there can be no doubt that all the particular powers requisite
as means of executing the general powers would have resulted to the
government, by unavoidable implication. No axiom is more clearly
established in law, or in reason, than that wherever the end is
required, the means are authorized; wherever a general power to do a
thing is given, every particular power necessary for doing it is
included. Had this last method, therefore, been pursued by the
convention, every objection now urged against their plan would remain
in all its plausibility; and the real inconveniency would be incurred
of not removing a pretext which may be seized on critical occasions
for drawing into question the essential powers of the Union. If it be
asked what is to be the consequence, in case the Congress shall
misconstrue this part of the Constitution, and exercise powers not
warranted by its true meaning, I answer, the same as if they should
misconstrue or enlarge any other power vested in them; as if the
general power had been reduced to particulars, and any one of these
were to be violated; the same, in short, as if the State legislatures
should violate the irrespective constitutional authorities. In the
first instance, the success of the usurpation will depend on the
executive and judiciary departments, which are to expound and give
effect to the legislative acts; and in the last resort a remedy must
be obtained from the people who can, by the election of more faithful
representatives, annul the acts of the usurpers. The truth is, that
this ultimate redress may be more confided in against unconstitutional
acts of the federal than of the State legislatures, for this plain
reason, that as every such act of the former will be an invasion of
the rights of the latter, these will be ever ready to mark the
innovation, to sound the alarm to the people, and to exert their local
influence in effecting a change of federal representatives. There
being no such intermediate body between the State legislatures and the
people interested in watching the conduct of the former, violations of
the State constitutions are more likely to remain unnoticed and
unredressed. 2. "This Constitution and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or
which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall
be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be
bound thereby, any thing in the constitution or laws of any State to
the contrary notwithstanding. "The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries
to the Constitution has betrayed them into an attack on this part of
it also, without which it would have been evidently and radically
defective. To be fully sensible of this, we need only suppose for a
moment that the supremacy of the State constitutions had been left
complete by a saving clause in their favor. In the first place, as
these constitutions invest the State legislatures with absolute
sovereignty, in all cases not excepted by the existing articles of
Confederation, all the authorities contained in the proposed
Constitution, so far as they exceed those enumerated in the
Confederation, would have been annulled, and the new Congress would
have been reduced to the same impotent condition with their
predecessors. In the next place, as the constitutions of some of the
States do not even expressly and fully recognize the existing powers
of the Confederacy, an express saving of the supremacy of the former
would, in such States, have brought into question every power
contained in the proposed Constitution. In the third place, as the
constitutions of the States differ much from each other, it might
happen that a treaty or national law, of great and equal importance to
the States, would interfere with some and not with other
constitutions, and would consequently be valid in some of the States,
at the same time that it would have no effect in others. In fine, the
world would have seen, for the first time, a system of government
founded on an inversion of the fundamental principles of all
government; it would have seen the authority of the whole society
every where subordinate to the authority of the parts; it would have
seen a monster, in which the head was under the direction of the
members. 3. "The Senators and Representatives, and the members of the
several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers,
both of the United States and the several States, shall be bound by
oath or affirmation to support this Constitution. "It has been asked
why it was thought necessary, that the State magistracy should be
bound to support the federal Constitution, and unnecessary that a like
oath should be imposed on the officers of the United States, in favor
of the State constitutions. Several reasons might be assigned for the
distinction. I content myself with one, which is obvious and
conclusive. The members of the federal government will have no agency
in carrying the State constitutions into effect. The members and
officers of the State governments, on the contrary, will have an
essential agency in giving effect to the federal Constitution. The
election of the President and Senate will depend, in all cases, on the
legislatures of the several States. And the election of the House of
Representatives will equally depend on the same authority in the first
instance; and will, probably, forever be conducted by the officers,
and according to the laws, of the States. 4. Among the provisions for
giving efficacy to the federal powers might be added those which
belong to the executive and judiciary departments: but as these are
reserved for particular examination in another place, I pass them over
in this. We have now reviewed, in detail, all the articles composing
the sum or quantity of power delegated by the proposed Constitution to
the federal government, and are brought to this undeniable conclusion,
that no part of the power is unnecessary or improper for accomplishing
the necessary objects of the Union. The question, therefore, whether
this amount of power shall be granted or not, resolves itself into
another question, whether or not a government commensurate to the
exigencies of the Union shall be established; or, in other words,
whether the Union itself shall be preserved.
HAVING shown that no one of the powers transferred to the federal
government is unnecessary or improper, the next question to be
considered is, whether the whole mass of them will be dangerous to the
portion of authority left in the several States. The adversaries to
the plan of the convention, instead of considering in the first place
what degree of power was absolutely necessary for the purposes of the
federal government, have exhausted themselves in a secondary inquiry
into the possible consequences of the proposed degree of power to the
governments of the particular States. But if the Union, as has been
shown, be essential to the security of the people of America against
foreign danger; if it be essential to their security against
contentions and wars among the different States; if it be essential to
guard them against those violent and oppressive factions which
embitter the blessings of liberty, and against those military
establishments which must gradually poison its very fountain; if, in a
word, the Union be essential to the happiness of the people of
America, is it not preposterous, to urge as an objection to a
government, without which the objects of the Union cannot be attained,
that such a government may derogate from the importance of the
governments of the individual States? Was, then, the American
Revolution effected, was the American Confederacy formed, was the
precious blood of thousands spilt, and the hard-earned substance of
millions lavished, not that the people of America should enjoy peace,
liberty, and safety, but that the government of the individual States,
that particular municipal establishments, might enjoy a certain extent
of power, and be arrayed with certain dignities and attributes of
sovereignty? We have heard of the impious doctrine in the Old World,
that the people were made for kings, not kings for the people. Is the
same doctrine to be revived in the New, in another shape that the
solid happiness of the people is to be sacrificed to the views of
political institutions of a different form? It is too early for
politicians to presume on our forgetting that the public good, the
real welfare of the great body of the people, is the supreme object to
be pursued; and that no form of government whatever has any other
value than as it may be fitted for the attainment of this object. Were
the plan of the convention adverse to the public happiness, my voice
would be, Reject the plan. Were the Union itself inconsistent with the
public happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union. In like manner, as
far as the sovereignty of the States cannot be reconciled to the
happiness of the people, the voice of every good citizen must be,

Let the former be sacrificed to the latter. How far the sacrifice is
necessary, has been shown. How far the unsacrificed residue will be
endangered, is the question before us. Several important
considerations have been touched in the course of these papers, which
discountenance the supposition that the operation of the federal
government will by degrees prove fatal to the State governments. The
more I revolve the subject, the more fully I am persuaded that the
balance is much more likely to be disturbed by the preponderancy of
the last than of the first scale. We have seen, in all the examples of
ancient and modern confederacies, the strongest tendency continually
betraying itself in the members, to despoil the general government of
its authorities, with a very ineffectual capacity in the latter to
defend itself against the encroachments. Although, in most of these
examples, the system has been so dissimilar from that under
consideration as greatly to weaken any inference concerning the latter
from the fate of the former, yet, as the States will retain, under the
proposed Constitution, a very extensive portion of active sovereignty,
the inference ought not to be wholly disregarded. In the Achaean
league it is probable that the federal head had a degree and species
of power, which gave it a considerable likeness to the government
framed by the convention. The Lycian Confederacy, as far as its
principles and form are transmitted, must have borne a still greater
analogy to it. Yet history does not inform us that either of them ever
degenerated, or tended to degenerate, into one consolidated
government. On the contrary, we know that the ruin of one of them
proceeded from the incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the
dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the subordinate
authorities. These cases are the more worthy of our attention, as the
external causes by which the component parts were pressed together
were much more numerous and powerful than in our case; and
consequently less powerful ligaments within would be sufficient to
bind the members to the head, and to each other. In the feudal system,
we have seen a similar propensity exemplified. Notwithstanding the
want of proper sympathy in every instance between the local sovereigns
and the people, and the sympathy in some instances between the general
sovereign and the latter, it usually happened that the local
sovereigns prevailed in the rivalship for encroachments.

Had no external dangers enforced internal harmony and subordination,
and particularly, had the local sovereigns possessed the affections of
the people, the great kingdoms in Europe would at this time consist of
as many independent princes as there were formerly feudatory
barons. The State government will have the advantage of the Federal
government, whether we compare them in respect to the immediate
dependence of the one on the other; to the weight of personal
influence which each side will possess; to the powers respectively
vested in them; to the predilection and probable support of the
people; to the disposition and faculty of resisting and frustrating
the measures of each other. The State governments may be regarded as
constituent and essential parts of the federal government; whilst the
latter is nowise essential to the operation or organization of the
former. Without the intervention of the State legislatures, the
President of the United States cannot be elected at all. They must in
all cases have a great share in his appointment, and will, perhaps, in
most cases, of themselves determine it. The Senate will be elected
absolutely and exclusively by the State legislatures. Even the House
of Representatives, though drawn immediately from the people, will be
chosen very much under the influence of that class of men, whose
influence over the people obtains for themselves an election into the
State legislatures. Thus, each of the principal branches of the
federal government will owe its existence more or less to the favor of
the State governments, and must consequently feel a dependence, which
is much more likely to beget a disposition too obsequious than too
overbearing towards them. On the other side, the component parts of
the State governments will in no instance be indebted for their
appointment to the direct agency of the federal government, and very
little, if at all, to the local influence of its members. The number
of individuals employed under the Constitution of the United States
will be much smaller than the number employed under the particular
States.

There will consequently be less of personal influence on the side of
the former than of the latter. The members of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments of thirteen and more States, the
justices of peace, officers of militia, ministerial officers of
justice, with all the county, corporation, and town officers, for
three millions and more of people, intermixed, and having particular
acquaintance with every class and circle of people, must exceed,
beyond all proportion, both in number and influence, those of every
description who will be employed in the administration of the federal
system. Compare the members of the three great departments of the
thirteen States, excluding from the judiciary department the justices
of peace, with the members of the corresponding departments of the
single government of the Union; compare the militia officers of three
millions of people with the military and marine officers of any
establishment which is within the compass of probability, or, I may
add, of possibility, and in this view alone, we may pronounce the
advantage of the States to be decisive. If the federal government is
to have collectors of revenue, the State governments will have theirs
also. And as those of the former will be principally on the seacoast,
and not very numerous, whilst those of the latter will be spread over
the face of the country, and will be very numerous, the advantage in
this view also lies on the same side.

It is true, that the Confederacy is to possess, and may exercise, the
power of collecting internal as well as external taxes throughout the
States; but it is probable that this power will not be resorted to,
except for supplemental purposes of revenue; that an option will then
be given to the States to supply their quotas by previous collections
of their own; and that the eventual collection, under the immediate
authority of the Union, will generally be made by the officers, and
according to the rules, appointed by the several States. Indeed it is
extremely probable, that in other instances, particularly in the
organization of the judicial power, the officers of the States will be
clothed with the correspondent authority of the Union.

Should it happen, however, that separate collectors of internal
revenue should be appointed under the federal government, the
influence of the whole number would not bear a comparison with that of
the multitude of State officers in the opposite scale.

Within every district to which a federal collector would be allotted,
there would not be less than thirty or forty, or even more, officers
of different descriptions, and many of them persons of character and
weight, whose influence would lie on the side of the State. The powers
delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are
few and defined. Those which are to remain in the State governments
are numerous and indefinite. The former will be exercised principally
on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and foreign commerce;
with which last the power of taxation will, for the most part, be
connected. The powers reserved to the several States will extend to
all the objects which, in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the
lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal
order, improvement, and prosperity of the State. The operations of the
federal government will be most extensive and important in times of
war and danger; those of the State governments, in times of peace and
security. As the former periods will probably bear a small proportion
to the latter, the State governments will here enjoy another advantage
over the federal government. The more adequate, indeed, the federal
powers may be rendered to the national defense, the less frequent will
be those scenes of danger which might favor their ascendancy over the
governments of the particular States. If the new Constitution be
examined with accuracy and candor, it will be found that the change
which it proposes consists much less in the addition of NEW POWERS to
the Union, than in the invigoration of its ORIGINAL POWERS. The
regulation of commerce, it is true, is a new power; but that seems to
be an addition which few oppose, and from which no apprehensions are
entertained. The powers relating to war and peace, armies and fleets,
treaties and finance, with the other more considerable powers, are all
vested in the existing Congress by the articles of Confederation. The
proposed change does not enlarge these powers; it only substitutes a
more effectual mode of administering them. The change relating to
taxation may be regarded as the most important; and yet the present
Congress have as complete authority to REQUIRE of the States
indefinite supplies of money for the common defense and general
welfare, as the future Congress will have to require them of
individual citizens; and the latter will be no more bound than the
States themselves have been, to pay the quotas respectively taxed on
them. Had the States complied punctually with the articles of
Confederation, or could their compliance have been enforced by as
peaceable means as may be used with success towards single persons,
our past experience is very far from countenancing an opinion, that
the State governments would have lost their constitutional powers, and
have gradually undergone an entire consolidation. To maintain that
such an event would have ensued, would be to say at once, that the
existence of the State governments is incompatible with any system
whatever that accomplishes the essential purposes of the Union.
RESUMING the subject of the last paper, I proceed to inquire whether
the federal government or the State governments will have the
advantage with regard to the predilection and support of the
people. Notwithstanding the different modes in which they are
appointed, we must consider both of them as substantially dependent on
the great body of the citizens of the United States.

I assume this position here as it respects the first, reserving the
proofs for another place. The federal and State governments are in
fact but different agents and trustees of the people, constituted with
different powers, and designed for different purposes. The adversaries
of the Constitution seem to have lost sight of the people altogether
in their reasonings on this subject; and to have viewed these
different establishments, not only as mutual rivals and enemies, but
as uncontrolled by any common superior in their efforts to usurp the
authorities of each other. These gentlemen must here be reminded of
their error. They must be told that the ultimate authority, wherever
the derivative may be found, resides in the people alone, and that it
will not depend merely on the comparative ambition or address of the
different governments, whether either, or which of them, will be able
to enlarge its sphere of jurisdiction at the expense of the
other. Truth, no less than decency, requires that the event in every
case should be supposed to depend on the sentiments and sanction of
their common constituents. Many considerations, besides those
suggested on a former occasion, seem to place it beyond doubt that the
first and most natural attachment of the people will be to the
governments of their respective States.

Into the administration of these a greater number of individuals will
expect to rise. From the gift of these a greater number of offices and
emoluments will flow. By the superintending care of these, all the
more domestic and personal interests of the people will be regulated
and provided for. With the affairs of these, the people will be more
familiarly and minutely conversant. And with the members of these,
will a greater proportion of the people have the ties of personal
acquaintance and friendship, and of family and party attachments; on
the side of these, therefore, the popular bias may well be expected
most strongly to incline. Experience speaks the same language in this
case. The federal administration, though hitherto very defective in
comparison with what may be hoped under a better system, had, during
the war, and particularly whilst the independent fund of paper
emissions was in credit, an activity and importance as great as it can
well have in any future circumstances whatever.

It was engaged, too, in a course of measures which had for their
object the protection of everything that was dear, and the acquisition
of everything that could be desirable to the people at large. It was,
nevertheless, invariably found, after the transient enthusiasm for the
early Congresses was over, that the attention and attachment of the
people were turned anew to their own particular governments; that the
federal council was at no time the idol of popular favor; and that
opposition to proposed enlargements of its powers and importance was
the side usually taken by the men who wished to build their political
consequence on the prepossessions of their fellow-citizens. If,
therefore, as has been elsewhere remarked, the people should in future
become more partial to the federal than to the State governments, the
change can only result from such manifest and irresistible proofs of a
better administration, as will overcome all their antecedent
propensities. And in that case, the people ought not surely to be
precluded from giving most of their confidence where they may discover
it to be most due; but even in that case the State governments could
have little to apprehend, because it is only within a certain sphere
that the federal power can, in the nature of things, be advantageously
administered. The remaining points on which I propose to compare the
federal and State governments, are the disposition and the faculty
they may respectively possess, to resist and frustrate the measures of
each other. It has been already proved that the members of the federal
will be more dependent on the members of the State governments, than
the latter will be on the former. It has appeared also, that the
prepossessions of the people, on whom both will depend, will be more
on the side of the State governments, than of the federal
government. So far as the disposition of each towards the other may be
influenced by these causes, the State governments must clearly have
the advantage.

But in a distinct and very important point of view, the advantage will
lie on the same side. The prepossessions, which the members themselves
will carry into the federal government, will generally be favorable to
the States; whilst it will rarely happen, that the members of the
State governments will carry into the public councils a bias in favor
of the general government. A local spirit will infallibly prevail much
more in the members of Congress, than a national spirit will prevail
in the legislatures of the particular States. Every one knows that a
great proportion of the errors committed by the State legislatures
proceeds from the disposition of the members to sacrifice the
comprehensive and permanent interest of the State, to the particular
and separate views of the counties or districts in which they
reside. And if they do not sufficiently enlarge their policy to
embrace the collective welfare of their particular State, how can it
be imagined that they will make the aggregate prosperity of the Union,
and the dignity and respectability of its government, the objects of
their affections and consultations? For the same reason that the
members of the State legislatures will be unlikely to attach
themselves sufficiently to national objects, the members of the
federal legislature will be likely to attach themselves too much to
local objects. The States will be to the latter what counties and
towns are to the former. Measures will too often be decided according
to their probable effect, not on the national prosperity and
happiness, but on the prejudices, interests, and pursuits of the
governments and people of the individual States. What is the spirit
that has in general characterized the proceedings of Congress? A
perusal of their journals, as well as the candid acknowledgments of
such as have had a seat in that assembly, will inform us, that the
members have but too frequently displayed the character, rather of
partisans of their respective States, than of impartial guardians of a
common interest; that where on one occasion improper sacrifices have
been made of local considerations, to the aggrandizement of the
federal government, the great interests of the nation have suffered on
a hundred, from an undue attention to the local prejudices, interests,
and views of the particular States. I mean not by these reflections to
insinuate, that the new federal government will not embrace a more
enlarged plan of policy than the existing government may have pursued;
much less, that its views will be as confined as those of the State
legislatures; but only that it will partake sufficiently of the spirit
of both, to be disinclined to invade the rights of the individual
States, or the preorgatives of their governments. The motives on the
part of the State governments, to augment their prerogatives by
defalcations from the federal government, will be overruled by no
reciprocal predispositions in the members. Were it admitted, however,
that the Federal government may feel an equal disposition with the
State governments to extend its power beyond the due limits, the
latter would still have the advantage in the means of defeating such
encroachments. If an act of a particular State, though unfriendly to
the national government, be generally popular in that State and should
not too grossly violate the oaths of the State officers, it is
executed immediately and, of course, by means on the spot and
depending on the State alone. The opposition of the federal
government, or the interposition of federal officers, would but
inflame the zeal of all parties on the side of the State, and the evil
could not be prevented or repaired, if at all, without the employment
of means which must always be resorted to with reluctance and
difficulty.

On the other hand, should an unwarrantable measure of the federal
government be unpopular in particular States, which would seldom fail
to be the case, or even a warrantable measure be so, which may
sometimes be the case, the means of opposition to it are powerful and
at hand. The disquietude of the people; their repugnance and, perhaps,
refusal to co-operate with the officers of the Union; the frowns of
the executive magistracy of the State; the embarrassments created by
legislative devices, which would often be added on such occasions,
would oppose, in any State, difficulties not to be despised; would
form, in a large State, very serious impediments; and where the
sentiments of several adjoining States happened to be in unison, would
present obstructions which the federal government would hardly be
willing to encounter. But ambitious encroachments of the federal
government, on the authority of the State governments, would not
excite the opposition of a single State, or of a few States only. They
would be signals of general alarm. Every government would espouse the
common cause. A correspondence would be opened. Plans of resistance
would be concerted. One spirit would animate and conduct the
whole. The same combinations, in short, would result from an
apprehension of the federal, as was produced by the dread of a
foreign, yoke; and unless the projected innovations should be
voluntarily renounced, the same appeal to a trial of force would be
made in the one case as was made in the other. But what degree of
madness could ever drive the federal government to such an
extremity. In the contest with Great Britain, one part of the empire
was employed against the other.

The more numerous part invaded the rights of the less numerous
part. The attempt was unjust and unwise; but it was not in speculation
absolutely chimerical. But what would be the contest in the case we
are supposing? Who would be the parties? A few representatives of the
people would be opposed to the people themselves; or rather one set of
representatives would be contending against thirteen sets of
representatives, with the whole body of their common constituents on
the side of the latter. The only refuge left for those who prophesy
the downfall of the State governments is the visionary supposition
that the federal government may previously accumulate a military force
for the projects of ambition. The reasonings contained in these papers
must have been employed to little purpose indeed, if it could be
necessary now to disprove the reality of this danger. That the people
and the States should, for a sufficient period of time, elect an
uninterupted succession of men ready to betray both; that the traitors
should, throughout this period, uniformly and systematically pursue
some fixed plan for the extension of the military establishment; that
the governments and the people of the States should silently and
patiently behold the gathering storm, and continue to supply the
materials, until it should be prepared to burst on their own heads,
must appear to every one more like the incoherent dreams of a
delirious jealousy, or the misjudged exaggerations of a counterfeit
zeal, than like the sober apprehensions of genuine patriotism.

Extravagant as the supposition is, let it however be made. Let a
regular army, fully equal to the resources of the country, be formed;
and let it be entirely at the devotion of the federal government;
still it would not be going too far to say, that the State
governments, with the people on their side, would be able to repel the
danger. The highest number to which, according to the best
computation, a standing army can be carried in any country, does not
exceed one hundredth part of the whole number of souls; or one
twenty-fifth part of the number able to bear arms. This proportion
would not yield, in the United States, an army of more than
twenty-five or thirty thousand men. To these would be opposed a
militia amounting to near half a million of citizens with arms in
their hands, officered by men chosen from among themselves, fighting
for their common liberties, and united and conducted by governments
possessing their affections and confidence. It may well be doubted,
whether a militia thus circumstanced could ever be conquered by such a
proportion of regular troops. Those who are best acquainted with the
last successful resistance of this country against the British arms,
will be most inclined to deny the possibility of it. Besides the
advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over the people
of almost every other nation, the existence of subordinate
governments, to which the people are attached, and by which the
militia officers are appointed, forms a barrier against the
enterprises of ambition, more insurmountable than any which a simple
government of any form can admit of. Notwithstanding the military
establishments in the several kingdoms of Europe, which are carried as
far as the public resources will bear, the governments are afraid to
trust the people with arms. And it is not certain, that with this aid
alone they would not be able to shake off their yokes. But were the
people to possess the additional advantages of local governments
chosen by themselves, who could collect the national will and direct
the national force, and of officers appointed out of the militia, by
these governments, and attached both to them and to the militia, it
may be affirmed with the greatest assurance, that the throne of every
tyranny in Europe would be speedily overturned in spite of the legions
which surround it. Let us not insult the free and gallant citizens of
America with the suspicion, that they would be less able to defend the
rights of which they would be in actual possession, than the debased
subjects of arbitrary power would be to rescue theirs from the hands
of their oppressors. Let us rather no longer insult them with the
supposition that they can ever reduce themselves to the necessity of
making the experiment, by a blind and tame submission to the long
train of insidious measures which must precede and produce it. The
argument under the present head may be put into a very concise form,
which appears altogether conclusive. Either the mode in which the
federal government is to be constructed will render it sufficiently
dependent on the people, or it will not. On the first supposition, it
will be restrained by that dependence from forming schemes obnoxious
to their constituents. On the other supposition, it will not possess
the confidence of the people, and its schemes of usurpation will be
easily defeated by the State governments, who will be supported by the
people. On summing up the considerations stated in this and the last
paper, they seem to amount to the most convincing evidence, that the
powers proposed to be lodged in the federal government are as little
formidable to those reserved to the individual States, as they are
indispensably necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Union; and
that all those alarms which have been sounded, of a meditated and
consequential annihilation of the State governments, must, on the most
favorable interpretation, be ascribed to the chimerical fears of the
authors of them.
HAVING reviewed the general form of the proposed government and the
general mass of power allotted to it, I proceed to examine the
particular structure of this government, and the distribution of this
mass of power among its constituent parts. One of the principal
objections inculcated by the more respectable adversaries to the
Constitution, is its supposed violation of the political maxim, that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments ought to be
separate and distinct. In the structure of the federal government, no
regard, it is said, seems to have been paid to this essential
precaution in favor of liberty. The several departments of power are
distributed and blended in such a manner as at once to destroy all
symmetry and beauty of form, and to expose some of the essential parts
of the edifice to the danger of being crushed by the disproportionate
weight of other parts. No political truth is certainly of greater
intrinsic value, or is stamped with the authority of more enlightened
patrons of liberty, than that on which the objection is founded.

The accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary,
in the same hands, whether of one, a few, or many, and whether
hereditary, selfappointed, or elective, may justly be pronounced the
very definition of tyranny. Were the federal Constitution, therefore,
really chargeable with the accumulation of power, or with a mixture of
powers, having a dangerous tendency to such an accumulation, no
further arguments would be necessary to inspire a universal
reprobation of the system. I persuade myself, however, that it will be
made apparent to every one, that the charge cannot be supported, and
that the maxim on which it relies has been totally misconceived and
misapplied. In order to form correct ideas on this important subject,
it will be proper to investigate the sense in which the preservation
of liberty requires that the three great departments of power should
be separate and distinct. The oracle who is always consulted and cited
on this subject is the celebrated Montesquieu. If he be not the author
of this invaluable precept in the science of politics, he has the
merit at least of displaying and recommending it most effectually to
the attention of mankind. Let us endeavor, in the first place, to
ascertain his meaning on this point. The British Constitution was to
Montesquieu what Homer has been to the didactic writers on epic
poetry. As the latter have considered the work of the immortal bard as
the perfect model from which the principles and rules of the epic art
were to be drawn, and by which all similar works were to be judged, so
this great political critic appears to have viewed the Constitution of
England as the standard, or to use his own expression, as the mirror
of political liberty; and to have delivered, in the form of elementary
truths, the several characteristic principles of that particular
system. That we may be sure, then, not to mistake his meaning in this
case, let us recur to the source from which the maxim was drawn. On
the slightest view of the British Constitution, we must perceive that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are by no means
totally separate and distinct from each other. The executive
magistrate forms an integral part of the legislative authority. He
alone has the prerogative of making treaties with foreign sovereigns,
which, when made, have, under certain limitations, the force of
legislative acts. All the members of the judiciary department are
appointed by him, can be removed by him on the address of the two
Houses of Parliament, and form, when he pleases to consult them, one
of his constitutional councils. One branch of the legislative
department forms also a great constitutional council to the executive
chief, as, on another hand, it is the sole depositary of judicial
power in cases of impeachment, and is invested with the supreme
appellate jurisdiction in all other cases. The judges, again, are so
far connected with the legislative department as often to attend and
participate in its deliberations, though not admitted to a legislative
vote. From these facts, by which Montesquieu was guided, it may
clearly be inferred that, in saying "There can be no liberty where the
legislative and executive powers are united in the same person, or
body of magistrates," or, "if the power of judging be not separated
from the legislative and executive powers," he did not mean that these
departments ought to have no PARTIAL AGENCY in, or no CONTROL over,
the acts of each other. His meaning, as his own words import, and
still more conclusively as illustrated by the example in his eye, can
amount to no more than this, that where the WHOLE power of one
department is exercised by the same hands which possess the WHOLE
power of another department, the fundamental principles of a free
constitution are subverted. This would have been the case in the
constitution examined by him, if the king, who is the sole executive
magistrate, had possessed also the complete legislative power, or the
supreme administration of justice; or if the entire legislative body
had possessed the supreme judiciary, or the supreme executive
authority. This, however, is not among the vices of that
constitution. The magistrate in whom the whole executive power resides
cannot of himself make a law, though he can put a negative on every
law; nor administer justice in person, though he has the appointment
of those who do administer it. The judges can exercise no executive
prerogative, though they are shoots from the executive stock; nor any
legislative function, though they may be advised with by the
legislative councils. The entire legislature can perform no judiciary
act, though by the joint act of two of its branches the judges may be
removed from their offices, and though one of its branches is
possessed of the judicial power in the last resort. The entire
legislature, again, can exercise no executive prerogative, though one
of its branches constitutes the supreme executive magistracy, and
another, on the impeachment of a third, can try and condemn all the
subordinate officers in the executive department. The reasons on which
Montesquieu grounds his maxim are a further demonstration of his
meaning. "When the legislative and executive powers are united in the
same person or body," says he, "there can be no liberty, because
apprehensions may arise lest THE SAME monarch or senate should ENACT
tyrannical laws to EXECUTE them in a tyrannical manner. " Again: "Were
the power of judging joined with the legislative, the life and liberty
of the subject would be exposed to arbitrary control, for THE JUDGE
would then be THE LEGISLATOR.

Were it joined to the executive power, THE JUDGE might behave with all
the violence of AN OPPRESSOR. " Some of these reasons are more fully
explained in other passages; but briefly stated as they are here, they
sufficiently establish the meaning which we have put on this
celebrated maxim of this celebrated author.

If we look into the constitutions of the several States, we find that,
notwithstanding the emphatical and, in some instances, the unqualified
terms in which this axiom has been laid down, there is not a single
instance in which the several departments of power have been kept
absolutely separate and distinct. New Hampshire, whose constitution
was the last formed, seems to have been fully aware of the
impossibility and inexpediency of avoiding any mixture whatever of
these departments, and has qualified the doctrine by declaring "that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary powers ought to be kept as
separate from, and independent of, each other AS THE NATURE OF A FREE
GOVERNMENT WILL ADMIT; OR AS IS CONSISTENT WITH THAT CHAIN OF
CONNECTION THAT BINDS THE WHOLE FABRIC OF THE CONSTITUTION IN ONE
INDISSOLUBLE BOND OF UNITY AND AMITY. " Her constitution accordingly
mixes these departments in several respects. The Senate, which is a
branch of the legislative department, is also a judicial tribunal for
the trial of impeachments. The President, who is the head of the
executive department, is the presiding member also of the Senate; and,
besides an equal vote in all cases, has a casting vote in case of a
tie. The executive head is himself eventually elective every year by
the legislative department, and his council is every year chosen by
and from the members of the same department. Several of the officers
of state are also appointed by the legislature. And the members of the
judiciary department are appointed by the executive department. The
constitution of Massachusetts has observed a sufficient though less
pointed caution, in expressing this fundamental article of liberty. It
declares "that the legislative department shall never exercise the
executive and judicial powers, or either of them; the executive shall
never exercise the legislative and judicial powers, or either of them;
the judicial shall never exercise the legislative and executive
powers, or either of them. " This declaration corresponds precisely
with the doctrine of Montesquieu, as it has been explained, and is not
in a single point violated by the plan of the convention. It goes no
farther than to prohibit any one of the entire departments from
exercising the powers of another department. In the very Constitution
to which it is prefixed, a partial mixture of powers has been
admitted. The executive magistrate has a qualified negative on the
legislative body, and the Senate, which is a part of the legislature,
is a court of impeachment for members both of the executive and
judiciary departments. The members of the judiciary department, again,
are appointable by the executive department, and removable by the same
authority on the address of the two legislative branches.

Lastly, a number of the officers of government are annually appointed
by the legislative department. As the appointment to offices,
particularly executive offices, is in its nature an executive
function, the compilers of the Constitution have, in this last point
at least, violated the rule established by themselves. I pass over the
constitutions of Rhode Island and Connecticut, because they were
formed prior to the Revolution, and even before the principle under
examination had become an object of political attention. The
constitution of New York contains no declaration on this subject; but
appears very clearly to have been framed with an eye to the danger of
improperly blending the different departments. It gives, nevertheless,
to the executive magistrate, a partial control over the legislative
department; and, what is more, gives a like control to the judiciary
department; and even blends the executive and judiciary departments in
the exercise of this control. In its council of appointment members of
the legislative are associated with the executive authority, in the
appointment of officers, both executive and judiciary. And its court
for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors is to consist
of one branch of the legislature and the principal members of the
judiciary department. The constitution of New Jersey has blended the
different powers of government more than any of the preceding. The
governor, who is the executive magistrate, is appointed by the
legislature; is chancellor and ordinary, or surrogate of the State; is
a member of the Supreme Court of Appeals, and president, with a
casting vote, of one of the legislative branches. The same legislative
branch acts again as executive council of the governor, and with him
constitutes the Court of Appeals. The members of the judiciary
department are appointed by the legislative department and removable
by one branch of it, on the impeachment of the other. According to the
constitution of Pennsylvania, the president, who is the head of the
executive department, is annually elected by a vote in which the
legislative department predominates. In conjunction with an executive
council, he appoints the members of the judiciary department, and
forms a court of impeachment for trial of all officers, judiciary as
well as executive. The judges of the Supreme Court and justices of the
peace seem also to be removable by the legislature; and the executive
power of pardoning in certain cases, to be referred to the same
department. The members of the executive counoil are made EX-OFFICIO
justices of peace throughout the State. In Delaware, the chief
executive magistrate is annually elected by the legislative
department. The speakers of the two legislative branches are
vice-presidents in the executive department. The executive chief, with
six others, appointed, three by each of the legislative branches
constitutes the Supreme Court of Appeals; he is joined with the
legislative department in the appointment of the other
judges. Throughout the States, it appears that the members of the
legislature may at the same time be justices of the peace; in this
State, the members of one branch of it are EX-OFFICIO justices of the
peace; as are also the members of the executive council. The principal
officers of the executive department are appointed by the legislative;
and one branch of the latter forms a court of impeachments. All
officers may be removed on address of the legislature. Maryland has
adopted the maxim in the most unqualified terms; declaring that the
legislative, executive, and judicial powers of government ought to be
forever separate and distinct from each other. Her constitution,
notwithstanding, makes the executive magistrate appointable by the
legislative department; and the members of the judiciary by the
executive department. The language of Virginia is still more pointed
on this subject. Her constitution declares, "that the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate and distinct;
so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging to the other;
nor shall any person exercise the powers of more than one of them at
the same time, except that the justices of county courts shall be
eligible to either House of Assembly. " Yet we find not only this
express exception, with respect to the members of the irferior courts,
but that the chief magistrate, with his executive council, are
appointable by the legislature; that two members of the latter are
triennially displaced at the pleasure of the legislature; and that all
the principal offices, both executive and judiciary, are filled by the
same department. The executive prerogative of pardon, also, is in one
case vested in the legislative department. The constitution of North
Carolina, which declares "that the legislative, executive, and supreme
judicial powers of government ought to be forever separate and
distinct from each other," refers, at the same time, to the
legislative department, the appointment not only of the executive
chief, but all the principal officers within both that and the
judiciary department. In South Carolina, the constitution makes the
executive magistracy eligible by the legislative department.

It gives to the latter, also, the appointment of the members of the
judiciary department, including even justices of the peace and
sheriffs; and the appointment of officers in the executive department,
down to captains in the army and navy of the State.

In the constitution of Georgia, where it is declared "that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate
and distinct, so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging
to the other," we find that the executive department is to be filled
by appointments of the legislature; and the executive prerogative of
pardon to be finally exercised by the same authority. Even justices of
the peace are to be appointed by the legislature. In citing these
cases, in which the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
have not been kept totally separate and distinct, I wish not to be
regarded as an advocate for the particular organizations of the
several State governments. I am fully aware that among the many
excellent principles which they exemplify, they carry strong marks of
the haste, and still stronger of the inexperience, under which they
were framed. It is but too obvious that in some instances the
fundamental principle under consideration has been violated by too
great a mixture, and even an actual consolidation, of the different
powers; and that in no instance has a competent provision been made
for maintaining in practice the separation delineated on paper. What I
have wished to evince is, that the charge brought against the proposed
Constitution, of violating the sacred maxim of free government, is
warranted neither by the real meaning annexed to that maxim by its
author, nor by the sense in which it has hitherto been understood in
America. This interesting subject will be resumed in the ensuing
paper.
IT WAS shown in the last paper that the political apothegm there
examined does not require that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments should be wholly unconnected with each other. I
shall undertake, in the next place, to show that unless these
departments be so far connected and blended as to give to each a
constitutional control over the others, the degree of separation which
the maxim requires, as essential to a free government, can never in
practice be duly maintained. It is agreed on all sides, that the
powers properly belonging to one of the departments ought not to be
directly and completely administered by either of the other
departments. It is equally evident, that none of them ought to
possess, directly or indirectly, an overruling influence over the
others, in the administration of their respective powers. It will not
be denied, that power is of an encroaching nature, and that it ought
to be effectually restrained from passing the limits assigned to it.

After discriminating, therefore, in theory, the several classes of
power, as they may in their nature be legislative, executive, or
judiciary, the next and most difficult task is to provide some
practical security for each, against the invasion of the others.

What this security ought to be, is the great problem to be
solved. Will it be sufficient to mark, with precision, the boundaries
of these departments, in the constitution of the government, and to
trust to these parchment barriers against the encroaching spirit of
power? This is the security which appears to have been principally
relied on by the compilers of most of the American constitutions. But
experience assures us, that the efficacy of the provision has been
greatly overrated; and that some more adequate defense is
indispensably necessary for the more feeble, against the more
powerful, members of the government. The legislative department is
everywhere extending the sphere of its activity, and drawing all power
into its impetuous vortex. The founders of our republics have so much
merit for the wisdom which they have displayed, that no task can be
less pleasing than that of pointing out the errors into which they
have fallen. A respect for truth, however, obliges us to remark, that
they seem never for a moment to have turned their eyes from the danger
to liberty from the overgrown and all-grasping prerogative of an
hereditary magistrate, supported and fortified by an hereditary branch
of the legislative authority. They seem never to have recollected the
danger from legislative usurpations, which, by assembling all power in
the same hands, must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by
executive usurpations. In a government where numerous and extensive
prerogatives are placed in the hands of an hereditary monarch, the
executive department is very justly regarded as the source of danger,
and watched with all the jealousy which a zeal for liberty ought to
inspire. In a democracy, where a multitude of people exercise in
person the legislative functions, and are continually exposed, by
their incapacity for regular deliberation and concerted measures, to
the ambitious intrigues of their executive magistrates, tyranny may
well be apprehended, on some favorable emergency, to start up in the
same quarter. But in a representative republic, where the executive
magistracy is carefully limited; both in the extent and the duration
of its power; and where the legislative power is exercised by an
assembly, which is inspired, by a supposed influence over the people,
with an intrepid confidence in its own strength; which is sufficiently
numerous to feel all the passions which actuate a multitude, yet not
so numerous as to be incapable of pursuing the objects of its
passions, by means which reason prescribes; it is against the
enterprising ambition of this department that the people ought to
indulge all their jealousy and exhaust all their precautions. The
legislative department derives a superiority in our governments from
other circumstances. Its constitutional powers being at once more
extensive, and less susceptible of precise limits, it can, with the
greater facility, mask, under complicated and indirect measures, the
encroachments which it makes on the co-ordinate departments. It is not
unfrequently a question of real nicety in legislative bodies, whether
the operation of a particular measure will, or will not, extend beyond
the legislative sphere. On the other side, the executive power being
restrained within a narrower compass, and being more simple in its
nature, and the judiciary being described by landmarks still less
uncertain, projects of usurpation by either of these departments would
immediately betray and defeat themselves. Nor is this all: as the
legislative department alone has access to the pockets of the people,
and has in some constitutions full discretion, and in all a prevailing
influence, over the pecuniary rewards of those who fill the other
departments, a dependence is thus created in the latter, which gives
still greater facility to encroachments of the former. I have appealed
to our own experience for the truth of what I advance on this
subject. Were it necessary to verify this experience by particular
proofs, they might be multiplied without end. I might find a witness
in every citizen who has shared in, or been attentive to, the course
of public administrations. I might collect vouchers in abundance from
the records and archives of every State in the Union. But as a more
concise, and at the same time equally satisfactory, evidence, I will
refer to the example of two States, attested by two unexceptionable
authorities. The first example is that of Virginia, a State which, as
we have seen, has expressly declared in its constitution, that the
three great departments ought not to be intermixed. The authority in
support of it is Mr. Jefferson, who, besides his other advantages for
remarking the operation of the government, was himself the chief
magistrate of it. In order to convey fully the ideas with which his
experience had impressed him on this subject, it will be necessary to
quote a passage of some length from his very interesting "Notes on the
State of Virginia," p. 195. "All the powers of government,
legislative, executive, and judiciary, result to the legislative
body. The concentrating these in the same hands, is precisely the
definition of despotic government. It will be no alleviation, that
these powers will be exercised by a plurality of hands, and not by a
single one. One hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as
oppressive as one. Let those who doubt it, turn their eyes on the
republic of Venice. As little will it avail us, that they are chosen
by ourselves. An ELECTIVE DESPOTISM was not the government we fought
for; but one which should not only be founded on free principles, but
in which the powers of government should be so divided and balanced
among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one could transcend
their legal limits, without being effectually checked and restrained
by the others.

For this reason, that convention which passed the ordinance of
government, laid its foundation on this basis, that the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments should be separate and distinct,
so that no person should exercise the powers of more than one of them
at the same time. BUT NO BARRIER WAS PROVIDED BETWEEN THESE SEVERAL
POWERS. The judiciary and the executive members were left dependent on
the legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it. If, therefore, the legislature assumes
executive and judiciary powers, no opposition is likely to be made;
nor, if made, can be effectual; because in that case they may put
their proceedings into the form of acts of Assembly, which will render
them obligatory on the other branches. They have accordingly, IN MANY
instances, DECIDED RIGHTS which should have been left to JUDICIARY
CONTROVERSY, and THE DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE, DURING THE WHOLE TIME
OF THEIR SESSION, IS BECOMING HABITUAL AND FAMILIAR. "The other State
which I shall take for an example is Pennsylvania; and the other
authority, the Council of Censors, which assembled in the years 1783
and 1784. A part of the duty of this body, as marked out by the
constitution, was "to inquire whether the constitution had been
preserved inviolate in every part; and whether the legislative and
executive branches of government had performed their duty as guardians
of the people, or assumed to themselves, or exercised, other or
greater powers than they are entitled to by the constitution. " In the
execution of this trust, the council were necessarily led to a
comparison of both the legislative and executive proceedings, with the
constitutional powers of these departments; and from the facts
enumerated, and to the truth of most of which both sides in the
council subscribed, it appears that the constitution had been
flagrantly violated by the legislature in a variety of important
instances. A great number of laws had been passed, violating, without
any apparent necessity, the rule requiring that all bills of a public
nature shall be previously printed for the consideration of the
people; although this is one of the precautions chiefly relied on by
the constitution against improper acts of legislature. The
constitutional trial by jury had been violated, and powers assumed
which had not been delegated by the constitution.

Executive powers had been usurped. The salaries of the judges, which
the constitution expressly requires to be fixed, had been occasionally
varied; and cases belonging to the judiciary department frequently
drawn within legislative cognizance and determination. Those who wish
to see the several particulars falling under each of these heads, may
consult the journals of the council, which are in print. Some of them,
it will be found, may be imputable to peculiar circumstances connected
with the war; but the greater part of them may be considered as the
spontaneous shoots of an ill-constituted government. It appears, also,
that the executive department had not been innocent of frequent
breaches of the constitution. There are three observations, however,
which ought to be made on this head: FIRST, a great proportion of the
instances were either immediately produced by the necessities of the
war, or recommended by Congress or the commander-in-chief; SECONDLY,
in most of the other instances, they conformed either to the declared
or the known sentiments of the legislative department; THIRDLY, the
executive department of Pennsylvania is distinguished from that of the
other States by the number of members composing it. In this respect,
it has as much affinity to a legislative assembly as to an executive
council. And being at once exempt from the restraint of an individual
responsibility for the acts of the body, and deriving confidence from
mutual example and joint influence, unauthorized measures would, of
course, be more freely hazarded, than where the executive department
is administered by a single hand, or by a few hands.

The conclusion which I am warranted in drawing from these observations
is, that a mere demarcation on parchment of the constitutional limits
of the several departments, is not a sufficient guard against those
encroachments which lead to a tyrannical concentration of all the
powers of government in the same hands.
THE remaining charge against the House of Representatives, which I am
to examine, is grounded on a supposition that the number of members
will not be augmented from time to time, as the progress of population
may demand. It has been admitted, that this objection, if well
supported, would have great weight. The following observations will
show that, like most other objections against the Constitution, it can
only proceed from a partial view of the subject, or from a jealousy
which discolors and disfigures every object which is beheld. 1. Those
who urge the objection seem not to have recollected that the federal
Constitution will not suffer by a comparison with the State
constitutions, in the security provided for a gradual augmentation of
the number of representatives. The number which is to prevail in the
first instance is declared to be temporary. Its duration is limited to
the short term of three years. Within every successive term of ten
years a census of inhabitants is to be repeated. The unequivocal
objects of these regulations are, first, to readjust, from time to
time, the apportionment of representatives to the number of
inhabitants, under the single exception that each State shall have one
representative at least; secondly, to augment the number of
representatives at the same periods, under the sole limitation that
the whole number shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand
inhabitants. If we review the constitutions of the several States, we
shall find that some of them contain no determinate regulations on
this subject, that others correspond pretty much on this point with
the federal Constitution, and that the most effectual security in any
of them is resolvable into a mere directory provision. 2. As far as
experience has taken place on this subject, a gradual increase of
representatives under the State constitutions has at least kept pace
with that of the constituents, and it appears that the former have
been as ready to concur in such measures as the latter have been to
call for them. 3. There is a peculiarity in the federal Constitution
which insures a watchful attention in a majority both of the people
and of their representatives to a constitutional augmentation of the
latter. The peculiarity lies in this, that one branch of the
legislature is a representation of citizens, the other of the States:
in the former, consequently, the larger States will have most weight;
in the latter, the advantage will be in favor of the smaller
States. From this circumstance it may with certainty be inferred that
the larger States will be strenuous advocates for increasing the
number and weight of that part of the legislature in which their
influence predominates. And it so happens that four only of the
largest will have a majority of the whole votes in the House of
Representatives. Should the representatives or people, therefore, of
the smaller States oppose at any time a reasonable addition of
members, a coalition of a very few States will be sufficient to
overrule the opposition; a coalition which, notwithstanding the
rivalship and local prejudices which might prevent it on ordinary
occasions, would not fail to take place, when not merely prompted by
common interest, but justified by equity and the principles of the
Constitution. It may be alleged, perhaps, that the Senate would be
prompted by like motives to an adverse coalition; and as their
concurrence would be indispensable, the just and constitutional views
of the other branch might be defeated. This is the difficulty which
has probably created the most serious apprehensions in the jealous
friends of a numerous representation. Fortunately it is among the
difficulties which, existing only in appearance, vanish on a close and
accurate inspection. The following reflections will, if I mistake not,
be admitted to be conclusive and satisfactory on this
point. Notwithstanding the equal authority which will subsist between
the two houses on all legislative subjects, except the originating of
money bills, it cannot be doubted that the House, composed of the
greater number of members, when supported by the more powerful States,
and speaking the known and determined sense of a majority of the
people, will have no small advantage in a question depending on the
comparative firmness of the two houses. This advantage must be
increased by the consciousness, felt by the same side of being
supported in its demands by right, by reason, and by the Constitution;
and the consciousness, on the opposite side, of contending against the
force of all these solemn considerations. It is farther to be
considered, that in the gradation between the smallest and largest
States, there are several, which, though most likely in general to
arrange themselves among the former are too little removed in extent
and population from the latter, to second an opposition to their just
and legitimate pretensions. Hence it is by no means certain that a
majority of votes, even in the Senate, would be unfriendly to proper
augmentations in the number of representatives. It will not be looking
too far to add, that the senators from all the new States may be
gained over to the just views of the House of Representatives, by an
expedient too obvious to be overlooked. As these States will, for a
great length of time, advance in population with peculiar rapidity,
they will be interested in frequent reapportionments of the
representatives to the number of inhabitants. The large States,
therefore, who will prevail in the House of Representatives, will have
nothing to do but to make reapportionments and augmentations mutually
conditions of each other; and the senators from all the most growing
States will be bound to contend for the latter, by the interest which
their States will feel in the former. These considerations seem to
afford ample security on this subject, and ought alone to satisfy all
the doubts and fears which have been indulged with regard to
it. Admitting, however, that they should all be insufficient to subdue
the unjust policy of the smaller States, or their predominant
influence in the councils of the Senate, a constitutional and
infallible resource still remains with the larger States, by which
they will be able at all times to accomplish their just purposes. The
House of Representatives cannot only refuse, but they alone can
propose, the supplies requisite for the support of government. They,
in a word, hold the purse that powerful instrument by which we behold,
in the history of the British Constitution, an infant and humble
representation of the people gradually enlarging the sphere of its
activity and importance, and finally reducing, as far as it seems to
have wished, all the overgrown prerogatives of the other branches of
the government. This power over the purse may, in fact, be regarded as
the most complete and effectual weapon with which any constitution can
arm the immediate representatives of the people, for obtaining a
redress of every grievance, and for carrying into effect every just
and salutary measure. But will not the House of Representatives be as
much interested as the Senate in maintaining the government in its
proper functions, and will they not therefore be unwilling to stake
its existence or its reputation on the pliancy of the Senate? Or, if
such a trial of firmness between the two branches were hazarded, would
not the one be as likely first to yield as the other? These questions
will create no difficulty with those who reflect that in all cases the
smaller the number, and the more permanent and conspicuous the
station, of men in power, the stronger must be the interest which they
will individually feel in whatever concerns the government. Those who
represent the dignity of their country in the eyes of other nations,
will be particularly sensible to every prospect of public danger, or
of dishonorable stagnation in public affairs. To those causes we are
to ascribe the continual triumph of the British House of Commons over
the other branches of the government, whenever the engine of a money
bill has been employed. An absolute inflexibility on the side of the
latter, although it could not have failed to involve every department
of the state in the general confusion, has neither been apprehended
nor experienced. The utmost degree of firmness that can be displayed
by the federal Senate or President, will not be more than equal to a
resistance in which they will be supported by constitutional and
patriotic principles. In this review of the Constitution of the House
of Representatives, I have passed over the circumstances of economy,
which, in the present state of affairs, might have had some effect in
lessening the temporary number of representatives, and a disregard of
which would probably have been as rich a theme of declamation against
the Constitution as has been shown by the smallness of the number
proposed. I omit also any remarks on the difficulty which might be
found, under present circumstances, in engaging in the federal service
a large number of such characters as the people will probably
elect. One observation, however, I must be permitted to add on this
subject as claiming, in my judgment, a very serious attention. It is,
that in all legislative assemblies the greater the number composing
them may be, the fewer will be the men who will in fact direct their
proceedings. In the first place, the more numerous an assembly may be,
of whatever characters composed, the greater is known to be the
ascendency of passion over reason. In the next place, the larger the
number, the greater will be the proportion of members of limited
information and of weak capacities. Now, it is precisely on characters
of this description that the eloquence and address of the few are
known to act with all their force. In the ancient republics, where the
whole body of the people assembled in person, a single orator, or an
artful statesman, was generally seen to rule with as complete a sway
as if a sceptre had been placed in his single hand. On the same
principle, the more multitudinous a representative assembly may be
rendered, the more it will partake of the infirmities incident to
collective meetings of the people.

Ignorance will be the dupe of cunning, and passion the slave of
sophistry and declamation. The people can never err more than in
supposing that by multiplying their representatives beyond a certain
limit, they strengthen the barrier against the government of a
few. Experience will forever admonish them that, on the contrary,
AFTER SECURING A SUFFICIENT NUMBER FOR THE PURPOSES OF SAFETY, OF
LOCAL INFORMATION, AND OF DIFFUSIVE SYMPATHY WITH THE WHOLE SOCIETY,
they will counteract their own views by every addition to their
representatives. The countenance of the government may become more
democratic, but the soul that animates it will be more oligarchic. The
machine will be enlarged, but the fewer, and often the more secret,
will be the springs by which its motions are directed. As connected
with the objection against the number of representatives, may properly
be here noticed, that which has been suggested against the number made
competent for legislative business. It has been said that more than a
majority ought to have been required for a quorum; and in particular
cases, if not in all, more than a majority of a quorum for a
decision. That some advantages might have resulted from such a
precaution, cannot be denied. It might have been an additional shield
to some particular interests, and another obstacle generally to hasty
and partial measures. But these considerations are outweighed by the
inconveniences in the opposite scale. In all cases where justice or
the general good might require new laws to be passed, or active
measures to be pursued, the fundamental principle of free government
would be reversed. It would be no longer the majority that would rule:
the power would be transferred to the minority. Were the defensive
privilege limited to particular cases, an interested minority might
take advantage of it to screen themselves from equitable sacrifices to
the general weal, or, in particular emergencies, to extort
unreasonable indulgences. Lastly, it would facilitate and foster the
baneful practice of secessions; a practice which has shown itself even
in States where a majority only is required; a practice subversive of
all the principles of order and regular government; a practice which
leads more directly to public convulsions, and the ruin of popular
governments, than any other which has yet been displayed among us.
AMONG the confederacies of antiquity, the most considerable was that
of the Grecian republics, associated under the Amphictyonic
council. From the best accounts transmitted of this celebrated
institution, it bore a very instructive analogy to the present
Confederation of the American States.

The members retained the character of independent and sovereign
states, and had equal votes in the federal council. This council had a
general authority to propose and resolve whatever it judged necessary
for the common welfare of Greece; to declare and carry on war; to
decide, in the last resort, all controversies between the members; to
fine the aggressing party; to employ the whole force of the
confederacy against the disobedient; to admit new members. The
Amphictyons were the guardians of religion, and of the immense riches
belonging to the temple of Delphos, where they had the right of
jurisdiction in controversies between the inhabitants and those who
came to consult the oracle. As a further provision for the efficacy of
the federal powers, they took an oath mutually to defend and protect
the united cities, to punish the violators of this oath, and to
inflict vengeance on sacrilegious despoilers of the temple.

In theory, and upon paper, this apparatus of powers seems amply
sufficient for all general purposes. In several material instances,
they exceed the powers enumerated in the articles of
confederation. The Amphictyons had in their hands the superstition of
the times, one of the principal engines by which government was then
maintained; they had a declared authority to use coercion against
refractory cities, and were bound by oath to exert this authority on
the necessary occasions.

Very different, nevertheless, was the experiment from the theory. The
powers, like those of the present Congress, were administered by
deputies appointed wholly by the cities in their political capacities;
and exercised over them in the same capacities. Hence the weakness,
the disorders, and finally the destruction of the confederacy. The
more powerful members, instead of being kept in awe and subordination,
tyrannized successively over all the rest. Athens, as we learn from
Demosthenes, was the arbiter of Greece seventy-three years. The
Lacedaemonians next governed it twenty-nine years; at a subsequent
period, after the battle of Leuctra, the Thebans had their turn of
domination.

It happened but too often, according to Plutarch, that the deputies of
the strongest cities awed and corrupted those of the weaker; and that
judgment went in favor of the most powerful party.

Even in the midst of defensive and dangerous wars with Persia and
Macedon, the members never acted in concert, and were, more or fewer
of them, eternally the dupes or the hirelings of the common enemy. The
intervals of foreign war were filled up by domestic vicissitudes
convulsions, and carnage.

After the conclusion of the war with Xerxes, it appears that the
Lacedaemonians required that a number of the cities should be turned
out of the confederacy for the unfaithful part they had acted. The
Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians would lose fewer partisans
by such a measure than themselves, and would become masters of the
public deliberations, vigorously opposed and defeated the
attempt. This piece of history proves at once the inefficiency of the
union, the ambition and jealousy of its most powerful members, and the
dependent and degraded condition of the rest. The smaller members,
though entitled by the theory of their system to revolve in equal
pride and majesty around the common center, had become, in fact,
satellites of the orbs of primary magnitude.

Had the Greeks, says the Abbe Milot, been as wise as they were
courageous, they would have been admonished by experience of the
necessity of a closer union, and would have availed themselves of the
peace which followed their success against the Persian arms, to
establish such a reformation. Instead of this obvious policy, Athens
and Sparta, inflated with the victories and the glory they had
acquired, became first rivals and then enemies; and did each other
infinitely more mischief than they had suffered from Xerxes. Their
mutual jealousies, fears, hatreds, and injuries ended in the
celebrated Peloponnesian war; which itself ended in the ruin and
slavery of the Athenians who had begun it.

As a weak government, when not at war, is ever agitated by internal
dissentions, so these never fail to bring on fresh calamities from
abroad. The Phocians having ploughed up some consecrated ground
belonging to the temple of Apollo, the Amphictyonic council, according
to the superstition of the age, imposed a fine on the sacrilegious
offenders. The Phocians, being abetted by Athens and Sparta, refused
to submit to the decree. The Thebans, with others of the cities,
undertook to maintain the authority of the Amphictyons, and to avenge
the violated god. The latter, being the weaker party, invited the
assistance of Philip of Macedon, who had secretly fostered the
contest. Philip gladly seized the opportunity of executing the designs
he had long planned against the liberties of Greece. By his intrigues
and bribes he won over to his interests the popular leaders of several
cities; by their influence and votes, gained admission into the
Amphictyonic council; and by his arts and his arms, made himself
master of the confederacy.

Such were the consequences of the fallacious principle on which this
interesting establishment was founded. Had Greece, says a judicious
observer on her fate, been united by a stricter confederation, and
persevered in her union, she would never have worn the chains of
Macedon; and might have proved a barrier to the vast projects of Rome.

The Achaean league, as it is called, was another society of Grecian
republics, which supplies us with valuable instruction.

The Union here was far more intimate, and its organization much wiser,
than in the preceding instance. It will accordingly appear, that
though not exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no means equally
deserved it.

The cities composing this league retained their municipal
jurisdiction, appointed their own officers, and enjoyed a perfect
equality. The senate, in which they were represented, had the sole and
exclusive right of peace and war; of sending and receiving
ambassadors; of entering into treaties and alliances; of appointing a
chief magistrate or praetor, as he was called, who commanded their
armies, and who, with the advice and consent of ten of the senators,
not only administered the government in the recess of the senate, but
had a great share in its deliberations, when assembled. According to
the primitive constitution, there were two praetors associated in the
administration; but on trial a single one was preferred.

It appears that the cities had all the same laws and customs, the same
weights and measures, and the same money. But how far this effect
proceeded from the authority of the federal council is left in
uncertainty. It is said only that the cities were in a manner
compelled to receive the same laws and usages. When Lacedaemon was
brought into the league by Philopoemen, it was attended with an
abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus, and an adoption of
those of the Achaeans. The Amphictyonic confederacy, of which she had
been a member, left her in the full exercise of her government and her
legislation. This circumstance alone proves a very material difference
in the genius of the two systems.

It is much to be regretted that such imperfect monuments remain of
this curious political fabric. Could its interior structure and
regular operation be ascertained, it is probable that more light would
be thrown by it on the science of federal government, than by any of
the like experiments with which we are acquainted.

One important fact seems to be witnessed by all the historians who
take notice of Achaean affairs. It is, that as well after the
renovation of the league by Aratus, as before its dissolution by the
arts of Macedon, there was infinitely more of moderation and justice
in the administration of its government, and less of violence and
sedition in the people, than were to be found in any of the cities
exercising SINGLY all the prerogatives of sovereignty. The Abbe Mably,
in his observations on Greece, says that the popular government, which
was so tempestuous elsewhere, caused no disorders in the members of
the Achaean republic, BECAUSE IT WAS THERE TEMPERED BY THE GENERAL
AUTHORITY AND LAWS OF THE CONFEDERACY.

We are not to conclude too hastily, however, that faction did not, in
a certain degree, agitate the particular cities; much less that a due
subordination and harmony reigned in the general system. The contrary
is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes and fate of the
republic.

Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained, that of the Achaeans,
which comprehended the less important cities only, made little figure
on the theatre of Greece. When the former became a victim to Macedon,
the latter was spared by the policy of Philip and Alexander. Under the
successors of these princes, however, a different policy
prevailed. The arts of division were practiced among the
Achaeans. Each city was seduced into a separate interest; the union
was dissolved. Some of the cities fell under the tyranny of Macedonian
garrisons; others under that of usurpers springing out of their own
confusions. Shame and oppression erelong awaken their love of
liberty. A few cities reunited. Their example was followed by others,
as opportunities were found of cutting off their tyrants. The league
soon embraced almost the whole Peloponnesus. Macedon saw its progress;
but was hindered by internal dissensions from stopping it. All Greece
caught the enthusiasm and seemed ready to unite in one confederacy,
when the jealousy and envy in Sparta and Athens, of the rising glory
of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp on the enterprise. The dread of
the Macedonian power induced the league to court the alliance of the
Kings of Egypt and Syria, who, as successors of Alexander, were rivals
of the king of Macedon. This policy was defeated by Cleomenes, king of
Sparta, who was led by his ambition to make an unprovoked attack on
his neighbors, the Achaeans, and who, as an enemy to Macedon, had
interest enough with the Egyptian and Syrian princes to effect a
breach of their engagements with the league.

The Achaeans were now reduced to the dilemma of submitting to
Cleomenes, or of supplicating the aid of Macedon, its former
oppressor. The latter expedient was adopted. The contests of the
Greeks always afforded a pleasing opportunity to that powerful
neighbor of intermeddling in their affairs. A Macedonian army quickly
appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished. The Achaeans soon experienced, as
often happens, that a victorious and powerful ally is but another name
for a master. All that their most abject compliances could obtain from
him was a toleration of the exercise of their laws. Philip, who was
now on the throne of Macedon, soon provoked by his tyrannies, fresh
combinations among the Greeks. The Achaeans, though weakenened by
internal dissensions and by the revolt of Messene, one of its members,
being joined by the AEtolians and Athenians, erected the standard of
opposition. Finding themselves, though thus supported, unequal to the
undertaking, they once more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of
introducing the succor of foreign arms. The Romans, to whom the
invitation was made, eagerly embraced it. Philip was conquered;
Macedon subdued. A new crisis ensued to the league. Dissensions broke
out among it members. These the Romans fostered. Callicrates and other
popular leaders became mercenary instruments for inveigling their
countrymen. The more effectually to nourish discord and disorder the
Romans had, to the astonishment of those who confided in their
sincerity, already proclaimed universal liberty [1] throughout
Greece. With the same insidious views, they now seduced the members
from the league, by representing to their pride the violation it
committed on their sovereignty. By these arts this union, the last
hope of Greece, the last hope of ancient liberty, was torn into
pieces; and such imbecility and distraction introduced, that the arms
of Rome found little difficulty in completing the ruin which their
arts had commenced. The Achaeans were cut to pieces, and Achaia loaded
with chains, under which it is groaning at this hour.

I have thought it not superfluous to give the outlines of this
important portion of history; both because it teaches more than one
lesson, and because, as a supplement to the outlines of the Achaean
constitution, it emphatically illustrates the tendency of federal
bodies rather to anarchy among the members, than to tyranny in the
head.
THE examples of ancient confederacies, cited in my last paper, have
not exhausted the source of experimental instruction on this
subject. There are existing institutions, founded on a similar
principle, which merit particular consideration. The first which
presents itself is the Germanic body.

In the early ages of Christianity, Germany was occupied by seven
distinct nations, who had no common chief. The Franks, one of the
number, having conquered the Gauls, established the kingdom which has
taken its name from them. In the ninth century Charlemagne, its
warlike monarch, carried his victorious arms in every direction; and
Germany became a part of his vast dominions. On the dismemberment,
which took place under his sons, this part was erected into a separate
and independent empire. Charlemagne and his immediate descendants
possessed the reality, as well as the ensigns and dignity of imperial
power. But the principal vassals, whose fiefs had become hereditary,
and who composed the national diets which Charlemagne had not
abolished, gradually threw off the yoke and advanced to sovereign
jurisdiction and independence. The force of imperial sovereignty was
insufficient to restrain such powerful dependants; or to preserve the
unity and tranquillity of the empire. The most furious private wars,
accompanied with every species of calamity, were carried on between
the different princes and states. The imperial authority, unable to
maintain the public order, declined by degrees till it was almost
extinct in the anarchy, which agitated the long interval between the
death of the last emperor of the Suabian, and the accession of the
first emperor of the Austrian lines. In the eleventh century the
emperors enjoyed full sovereignty: In the fifteenth they had little
more than the symbols and decorations of power.

Out of this feudal system, which has itself many of the important
features of a confederacy, has grown the federal system which
constitutes the Germanic empire. Its powers are vested in a diet
representing the component members of the confederacy; in the emperor,
who is the executive magistrate, with a negative on the decrees of the
diet; and in the imperial chamber and the aulic council, two judiciary
tribunals having supreme jurisdiction in controversies which concern
the empire, or which happen among its members.

The diet possesses the general power of legislating for the empire; of
making war and peace; contracting alliances; assessing quotas of
troops and money; constructing fortresses; regulating coin; admitting
new members; and subjecting disobedient members to the ban of the
empire, by which the party is degraded from his sovereign rights and
his possessions forfeited. The members of the confederacy are
expressly restricted from entering into compacts prejudicial to the
empire; from imposing tolls and duties on their mutual intercourse,
without the consent of the emperor and diet; from altering the value
of money; from doing injustice to one another; or from affording
assistance or retreat to disturbers of the public peace. And the ban
is denounced against such as shall violate any of these
restrictions. The members of the diet, as such, are subject in all
cases to be judged by the emperor and diet, and in their private
capacities by the aulic council and imperial chamber.

The prerogatives of the emperor are numerous. The most important of
them are: his exclusive right to make propositions to the diet; to
negative its resolutions; to name ambassadors; to confer dignities and
titles; to fill vacant electorates; to found universities; to grant
privileges not injurious to the states of the empire; to receive and
apply the public revenues; and generally to watch over the public
safety. In certain cases, the electors form a council to him. In
quality of emperor, he possesses no territory within the empire, nor
receives any revenue for his support. But his revenue and dominions,
in other qualities, constitute him one of the most powerful princes in
Europe.

From such a parade of constitutional powers, in the representatives
and head of this confederacy, the natural supposition would be, that
it must form an exception to the general character which belongs to
its kindred systems. Nothing would be further from the reality. The
fundamental principle on which it rests, that the empire is a
community of sovereigns, that the diet is a representation of
sovereigns and that the laws are addressed to sovereigns, renders the
empire a nerveless body, incapable of regulating its own members,
insecure against external dangers, and agitated with unceasing
fermentations in its own bowels.

The history of Germany is a history of wars between the emperor and
the princes and states; of wars among the princes and states
themselves; of the licentiousness of the strong, and the oppression of
the weak; of foreign intrusions, and foreign intrigues; of
requisitions of men and money disregarded, or partially complied with;
of attempts to enforce them, altogether abortive, or attended with
slaughter and desolation, involving the innocent with the guilty; of
general inbecility, confusion, and misery.

In the sixteenth century, the emperor, with one part of the empire on
his side, was seen engaged against the other princes and states. In
one of the conflicts, the emperor himself was put to flight, and very
near being made prisoner by the elector of Saxony. The late king of
Prussia was more than once pitted against his imperial sovereign; and
commonly proved an overmatch for him. Controversies and wars among the
members themselves have been so common, that the German annals are
crowded with the bloody pages which describe them. Previous to the
peace of Westphalia, Germany was desolated by a war of thirty years,
in which the emperor, with one half of the empire, was on one side,
and Sweden, with the other half, on the opposite side. Peace was at
length negotiated, and dictated by foreign powers; and the articles of
it, to which foreign powers are parties, made a fundamental part of
the Germanic constitution.

If the nation happens, on any emergency, to be more united by the
necessity of self-defense, its situation is still deplorable. Military
preparations must be preceded by so many tedious discussions, arising
from the jealousies, pride, separate views, and clashing pretensions
of sovereign bodies, that before the diet can settle the arrangements,
the enemy are in the field; and before the federal troops are ready to
take it, are retiring into winter quarters.

The small body of national troops, which has been judged necessary in
time of peace, is defectively kept up, badly paid, infected with local
prejudices, and supported by irregular and disproportionate
contributions to the treasury.

The impossibility of maintaining order and dispensing justice among
these sovereign subjects, produced the experiment of dividing the
empire into nine or ten circles or districts; of giving them an
interior organization, and of charging them with the military
execution of the laws against delinquent and contumacious
members. This experiment has only served to demonstrate more fully the
radical vice of the constitution. Each circle is the miniature picture
of the deformities of this political monster. They either fail to
execute their commissions, or they do it with all the devastation and
carnage of civil war. Sometimes whole circles are defaulters; and then
they increase the mischief which they were instituted to remedy.

We may form some judgment of this scheme of military coercion from a
sample given by Thuanus. In Donawerth, a free and imperial city of the
circle of Suabia, the Abb 300 de St. Croix enjoyed certain immunities
which had been reserved to him. In the exercise of these, on some
public occasions, outrages were committed on him by the people of the
city. The consequence was that the city was put under the ban of the
empire, and the Duke of Bavaria, though director of another circle,
obtained an appointment to enforce it. He soon appeared before the
city with a corps of ten thousand troops, and finding it a fit
occasion, as he had secretly intended from the beginning, to revive an
antiquated claim, on the pretext that his ancestors had suffered the
place to be dismembered from his territory, [1] he took possession of
it in his own name, disarmed, and punished the inhabitants, and
reannexed the city to his domains.

It may be asked, perhaps, what has so long kept this disjointed
machine from falling entirely to pieces? The answer is obvious: The
weakness of most of the members, who are unwilling to expose
themselves to the mercy of foreign powers; the weakness of most of the
principal members, compared with the formidable powers all around
them; the vast weight and influence which the emperor derives from his
separate and heriditary dominions; and the interest he feels in
preserving a system with which his family pride is connected, and
which constitutes him the first prince in Europe; --these causes
support a feeble and precarious Union; whilst the repellant quality,
incident to the nature of sovereignty, and which time continually
strengthens, prevents any reform whatever, founded on a proper
consolidation. Nor is it to be imagined, if this obstacle could be
surmounted, that the neighboring powers would suffer a revolution to
take place which would give to the empire the force and preeminence to
which it is entitled. Foreign nations have long considered themselves
as interested in the changes made by events in this constitution; and
have, on various occasions, betrayed their policy of perpetuating its
anarchy and weakness.

If more direct examples were wanting, Poland, as a government over
local sovereigns, might not improperly be taken notice of. Nor could
any proof more striking be given of the calamities flowing from such
institutions. Equally unfit for self-government and self-defense, it
has long been at the mercy of its powerful neighbors; who have lately
had the mercy to disburden it of one third of its people and
territories.

The connection among the Swiss cantons scarcely amounts to a
confederacy; though it is sometimes cited as an instance of the
stability of such institutions.

They have no common treasury; no common troops even in war; no common
coin; no common judicatory; nor any other common mark of sovereignty.

They are kept together by the peculiarity of their topographical
position; by their individual weakness and insignificancy; by the fear
of powerful neighbors, to one of which they were formerly subject; by
the few sources of contention among a people of such simple and
homogeneous manners; by their joint interest in their dependent
possessions; by the mutual aid they stand in need of, for suppressing
insurrections and rebellions, an aid expressly stipulated and often
required and afforded; and by the necessity of some regular and
permanent provision for accomodating disputes among the cantons. The
provision is, that the parties at variance shall each choose four
judges out of the neutral cantons, who, in case of disagreement,
choose an umpire. This tribunal, under an oath of impartiality,
pronounces definitive sentence, which all the cantons are bound to
enforce. The competency of this regulation may be estimated by a
clause in their treaty of 1683, with Victor Amadeus of Savoy; in which
he obliges himself to interpose as mediator in disputes between the
cantons, and to employ force, if necessary, against the contumacious
party.

So far as the peculiarity of their case will admit of comparison with
that of the United States, it serves to confirm the principle intended
to be established. Whatever efficacy the union may have had in
ordinary cases, it appears that the moment a cause of difference
sprang up, capable of trying its strength, it failed. The
controversies on the subject of religion, which in three instances
have kindled violent and bloody contests, may be said, in fact, to
have severed the league. The Protestant and Catholic cantons have
since had their separate diets, where all the most important concerns
are adjusted, and which have left the general diet little other
business than to take care of the common bailages.

That separation had another consequence, which merits attention. It
produced opposite alliances with foreign powers: of Berne, at the head
of the Protestant association, with the United Provinces; and of
Luzerne, at the head of the Catholic association, with France.
THE United Netherlands are a confederacy of republics, or rather of
aristocracies of a very remarkable texture, yet confirming all the
lessons derived from those which we have already reviewed.

The union is composed of seven coequal and sovereign states, and each
state or province is a composition of equal and independent cities. In
all important cases, not only the provinces but the cities must be
unanimous.

The sovereignty of the Union is represented by the States-General,
consisting usually of about fifty deputies appointed by the
provinces. They hold their seats, some for life, some for six, three,
and one years; from two provinces they continue in appointment during
pleasure.

The States-General have authority to enter into treaties and
alliances; to make war and peace; to raise armies and equip fleets; to
ascertain quotas and demand contributions. In all these cases,
however, unanimity and the sanction of their constituents are
requisite. They have authority to appoint and receive ambassadors; to
execute treaties and alliances already formed; to provide for the
collection of duties on imports and exports; to regulate the mint,
with a saving to the provincial rights; to govern as sovereigns the
dependent territories. The provinces are restrained, unless with the
general consent, from entering into foreign treaties; from
establishing imposts injurious to others, or charging their neighbors
with higher duties than their own subjects. A council of state, a
chamber of accounts, with five colleges of admiralty, aid and fortify
the federal administration.

The executive magistrate of the union is the stadtholder, who is now
an hereditary prince. His principal weight and influence in the
republic are derived from this independent title; from his great
patrimonial estates; from his family connections with some of the
chief potentates of Europe; and, more than all, perhaps, from his
being stadtholder in the several provinces, as well as for the union;
in which provincial quality he has the appointment of town magistrates
under certain regulations, executes provincial decrees, presides when
he pleases in the provincial tribunals, and has throughout the power
of pardon.

As stadtholder of the union, he has, however, considerable
prerogatives.

In his political capacity he has authority to settle disputes between
the provinces, when other methods fail; to assist at the deliberations
of the States-General, and at their particular conferences; to give
audiences to foreign ambassadors, and to keep agents for his
particular affairs at foreign courts.

In his military capacity he commands the federal troops, provides for
garrisons, and in general regulates military affairs; disposes of all
appointments, from colonels to ensigns, and of the governments and
posts of fortified towns.

In his marine capacity he is admiral-general, and superintends and
directs every thing relative to naval forces and other naval affairs;
presides in the admiralties in person or by proxy; appoints
lieutenant-admirals and other officers; and establishes councils of
war, whose sentences are not executed till he approves them.

His revenue, exclusive of his private income, amounts to three hundred
thousand florins. The standing army which he commands consists of
about forty thousand men.

Such is the nature of the celebrated Belgic confederacy, as delineated
on parchment. What are the characters which practice has stamped upon
it? Imbecility in the government; discord among the provinces; foreign
influence and indignities; a precarious existence in peace, and
peculiar calamities from war.

It was long ago remarked by Grotius, that nothing but the hatred of
his countrymen to the house of Austria kept them from being ruined by
the vices of their constitution.

The union of Utrecht, says another respectable writer, reposes an
authority in the States-General, seemingly sufficient to secure
harmony, but the jealousy in each province renders the practice very
different from the theory.

The same instrument, says another, obliges each province to levy
certain contributions; but this article never could, and probably
never will, be executed; because the inland provinces, who have little
commerce, cannot pay an equal quota.

In matters of contribution, it is the practice to waive the articles
of the constitution. The danger of delay obliges the consenting
provinces to furnish their quotas, without waiting for the others; and
then to obtain reimbursement from the others, by deputations, which
are frequent, or otherwise, as they can. The great wealth and
influence of the province of Holland enable her to effect both these
purposes.

It has more than once happened, that the deficiencies had to be
ultimately collected at the point of the bayonet; a thing practicable,
though dreadful, in a confedracy where one of the members exceeds in
force all the rest, and where several of them are too small to
meditate resistance; but utterly impracticable in one composed of
members, several of which are equal to each other in strength and
resources, and equal singly to a vigorous and persevering defense.

Foreign ministers, says Sir William Temple, who was himself a foreign
minister, elude matters taken ad referendum, by tampering with the
provinces and cities. In 1726, the treaty of Hanover was delayed by
these means a whole year. Instances of a like nature are numerous and
notorious.

In critical emergencies, the States-General are often compelled to
overleap their constitutional bounds. In 1688, they concluded a treaty
of themselves at the risk of their heads. The treaty of Westphalia, in
1648, by which their independence was formerly and finally recognized,
was concluded without the consent of Zealand. Even as recently as the
last treaty of peace with Great Britain, the constitutional principle
of unanimity was departed from. A weak constitution must necessarily
terminate in dissolution, for want of proper powers, or the usurpation
of powers requisite for the public safety. Whether the usurpation,
when once begun, will stop at the salutary point, or go forward to the
dangerous extreme, must depend on the contingencies of the
moment. Tyranny has perhaps oftener grown out of the assumptions of
power, called for, on pressing exigencies, by a defective
constitution, than out of the full exercise of the largest
constitutional authorities.

Notwithstanding the calamities produced by the stadtholdership, it has
been supposed that without his influence in the individual provinces,
the causes of anarchy manifest in the confederacy would long ago have
dissolved it. "Under such a government," says the Abbe Mably, "the
Union could never have subsisted, if the provinces had not a spring
within themselves, capable of quickening their tardiness, and
compelling them to the same way of thinking. This spring is the
stadtholder." It is remarked by Sir William Temple, "that in the
intermissions of the stadtholdership, Holland, by her riches and her
authority, which drew the others into a sort of dependence, supplied
the place."  These are not the only circumstances which have
controlled the tendency to anarchy and dissolution. The surrounding
powers impose an absolute necessity of union to a certain degree, at
the same time that they nourish by their intrigues the constitutional
vices which keep the republic in some degree always at their mercy.

The true patriots have long bewailed the fatal tendency of these
vices, and have made no less than four regular experiments by
EXTRAORDINARY ASSEMBLIES, convened for the special purpose, to apply a
remedy. As many times has their laudable zeal found it impossible to
UNITE THE PUBLIC COUNCILS in reforming the known, the acknowledged,
the fatal evils of the existing constitution. Let us pause, my
fellow-citizens, for one moment, over this melancholy and monitory
lesson of history; and with the tear that drops for the calamities
brought on mankind by their adverse opinions and selfish passions, let
our gratitude mingle an ejaculation to Heaven, for the propitious
concord which has distinguished the consultations for our political
happiness.

A design was also conceived of establishing a general tax to be
administered by the federal authority. This also had its adversaries
and failed.

This unhappy people seem to be now suffering from popular convulsions,
from dissensions among the states, and from the actual invasion of
foreign arms, the crisis of their distiny. All nations have their eyes
fixed on the awful spectacle. The first wish prompted by humanity is,
that this severe trial may issue in such a revolution of their
government as will establish their union, and render it the parent of
tranquillity, freedom and happiness: The next, that the asylum under
which, we trust, the enjoyment of these blessings will speedily be
secured in this country, may receive and console them for the
catastrophe of their own.

I make no apology for having dwelt so long on the contemplation of
these federal precedents. Experience is the oracle of truth; and where
its responses are unequivocal, they ought to be conclusive and
sacred. The important truth, which it unequivocally pronounces in the
present case, is that a sovereignty over sovereigns, a government over
governments, a legislation for communities, as contradistinguished
from individuals, as it is a solecism in theory, so in practice it is
subversive of the order and ends of civil polity, by substituting
VIOLENCE in place of LAW, or the destructive COERCION of the SWORD in
place of the mild and salutary COERCION of the MAGISTRACY.
THE author of the "Notes on the State of Virginia," quoted in the last
paper, has subjoined to that valuable work the draught of a
constitution, which had been prepared in order to be laid before a
convention, expected to be called in 1783, by the legislature, for the
establishment of a constitution for that commonwealth. The plan, like
every thing from the same pen, marks a turn of thinking, original,
comprehensive, and accurate; and is the more worthy of attention as it
equally displays a fervent attachment to republican government and an
enlightened view of the dangerous propensities against which it ought
to be guarded.

One of the precautions which he proposes, and on which he appears
ultimately to rely as a palladium to the weaker departments of power
against the invasions of the stronger, is perhaps altogether his own,
and as it immediately relates to the subject of our present inquiry,
ought not to be overlooked. His proposition is, "that whenever any two
of the three branches of government shall concur in opinion, each by
the voices of two thirds of their whole number, that a convention is
necessary for altering the constitution, or CORRECTING BREACHES OF IT,
a convention shall be called for the purpose. "As the people are the
only legitimate fountain of power, and it is from them that the
constitutional charter, under which the several branches of government
hold their power, is derived, it seems strictly consonant to the
republican theory, to recur to the same original authority, not only
whenever it may be necessary to enlarge, diminish, or new-model the
powers of the government, but also whenever any one of the departments
may commit encroachments on the chartered authorities of the
others. The several departments being perfectly co-ordinate by the
terms of their common commission, none of them, it is evident, can
pretend to an exclusive or superior right of settling the boundaries
between their respective powers; and how are the encroachments of the
stronger to be prevented, or the wrongs of the weaker to be redressed,
without an appeal to the people themselves, who, as the grantors of
the commissions, can alone declare its true meaning, and enforce its
observance? There is certainly great force in this reasoning, and it
must be allowed to prove that a constitutional road to the decision of
the people ought to be marked out and kept open, for certain great and
extraordinary occasions. But there appear to be insuperable objections
against the proposed recurrence to the people, as a provision in all
cases for keeping the several departments of power within their
constitutional limits. In the first place, the provision does not
reach the case of a combination of two of the departments against the
third. If the legislative authority, which possesses so many means of
operating on the motives of the other departments, should be able to
gain to its interest either of the others, or even one third of its
members, the remaining department could derive no advantage from its
remedial provision. I do not dwell, however, on this objection,
because it may be thought to be rather against the modification of the
principle, than against the principle itself. In the next place, it
may be considered as an objection inherent in the principle, that as
every appeal to the people would carry an implication of some defect
in the government, frequent appeals would, in a great measure, deprive
the government of that veneration which time bestows on every thing,
and without which perhaps the wisest and freest governments would not
possess the requisite stability. If it be true that all governments
rest on opinion, it is no less true that the strength of opinion in
each individual, and its practical influence on his conduct, depend
much on the number which he supposes to have entertained the same
opinion. The reason of man, like man himself, is timid and cautious
when left alone, and acquires firmness and confidence in proportion to
the number with which it is associated. When the examples which
fortify opinion are ANCIENT as well as NUMEROUS, they are known to
have a double effect. In a nation of philosophers, this consideration
ought to be disregarded. A reverence for the laws would be
sufficiently inculcated by the voice of an enlightened reason. But a
nation of philosophers is as little to be expected as the
philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato. And in every other
nation, the most rational government will not find it a superfluous
advantage to have the prejudices of the community on its side. The
danger of disturbing the public tranquillity by interesting too
strongly the public passions, is a still more serious objection
against a frequent reference of constitutional questions to the
decision of the whole society. Notwithstanding the success which has
attended the revisions of our established forms of government, and
which does so much honor to the virtue and intelligence of the people
of America, it must be confessed that the experiments are of too
ticklish a nature to be unnecessarily multiplied. We are to recollect
that all the existing constitutions were formed in the midst of a
danger which repressed the passions most unfriendly to order and
concord; of an enthusiastic confidence of the people in their
patriotic leaders, which stifled the ordinary diversity of opinions on
great national questions; of a universal ardor for new and opposite
forms, produced by a universal resentment and indignation against the
ancient government; and whilst no spirit of party connected with the
changes to be made, or the abuses to be reformed, could mingle its
leaven in the operation. The future situations in which we must expect
to be usually placed, do not present any equivalent security against
the danger which is apprehended. But the greatest objection of all is,
that the decisions which would probably result from such appeals would
not answer the purpose of maintaining the constitutional equilibrium
of the government. We have seen that the tendency of republican
governments is to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the expense
of the other departments. The appeals to the people, therefore, would
usually be made by the executive and judiciary departments. But
whether made by one side or the other, would each side enjoy equal
advantages on the trial? Let us view their different situations. The
members of the executive and judiciary departments are few in number,
and can be personally known to a small part only of the people. The
latter, by the mode of their appointment, as well as by the nature and
permanency of it, are too far removed from the people to share much in
their prepossessions. The former are generally the objects of
jealousy, and their administration is always liable to be discolored
and rendered unpopular. The members of the legislative department, on
the other hand, are numberous. They are distributed and dwell among
the people at large. Their connections of blood, of friendship, and of
acquaintance embrace a great proportion of the most influential part
of the society. The nature of their public trust implies a personal
influence among the people, and that they are more immediately the
confidential guardians of the rights and liberties of the people. With
these advantages, it can hardly be supposed that the adverse party
would have an equal chance for a favorable issue. But the legislative
party would not only be able to plead their cause most successfully
with the people. They would probably be constituted themselves the
judges.

The same influence which had gained them an election into the
legislature, would gain them a seat in the convention. If this should
not be the case with all, it would probably be the case with many, and
pretty certainly with those leading characters, on whom every thing
depends in such bodies. The convention, in short, would be composed
chiefly of men who had been, who actually were, or who expected to be,
members of the department whose conduct was arraigned. They would
consequently be parties to the very question to be decided by them. It
might, however, sometimes happen, that appeals would be made under
circumstances less adverse to the executive and judiciary
departments. The usurpations of the legislature might be so flagrant
and so sudden, as to admit of no specious coloring. A strong party
among themselves might take side with the other branches. The
executive power might be in the hands of a peculiar favorite of the
people. In such a posture of things, the public decision might be less
swayed by prepossessions in favor of the legislative party. But still
it could never be expected to turn on the true merits of the
question. It would inevitably be connected with the spirit of
pre-existing parties, or of parties springing out of the question
itself. It would be connected with persons of distinguished character
and extensive influence in the community. It would be pronounced by
the very men who had been agents in, or opponents of, the measures to
which the decision would relate. The PASSIONS, therefore, not the
REASON, of the public would sit in judgment. But it is the reason,
alone, of the public, that ought to control and regulate the
government. The passions ought to be controlled and regulated by the
government.

We found in the last paper, that mere declarations in the written
constitution are not sufficient to restrain the several departments
within their legal rights. It appears in this, that occasional appeals
to the people would be neither a proper nor an effectual provision for
that purpose. How far the provisions of a different nature contained
in the plan above quoted might be adequate, I do not examine. Some of
them are unquestionably founded on sound political principles, and all
of them are framed with singular ingenuity and precision.
IT MAY be contended, perhaps, that instead of OCCASIONAL appeals to
the people, which are liable to the objections urged against them,
PERIODICAL appeals are the proper and adequate means of PREVENTING AND
CORRECTING INFRACTIONS OF THE CONSTITUTION. It will be attended to,
that in the examination of these expedients, I confine myself to their
aptitude for ENFORCING the Constitution, by keeping the several
departments of power within their due bounds, without particularly
considering them as provisions for ALTERING the Constitution
itself. In the first view, appeals to the people at fixed periods
appear to be nearly as ineligible as appeals on particular occasions
as they emerge.

If the periods be separated by short intervals, the measures to be
reviewed and rectified will have been of recent date, and will be
connected with all the circumstances which tend to vitiate and pervert
the result of occasional revisions. If the periods be distant from
each other, the same remark will be applicable to all recent measures;
and in proportion as the remoteness of the others may favor a
dispassionate review of them, this advantage is inseparable from
inconveniences which seem to counterbalance it. In the first place, a
distant prospect of public censure would be a very feeble restraint on
power from those excesses to which it might be urged by the force of
present motives. Is it to be imagined that a legislative assembly,
consisting of a hundred or two hundred members, eagerly bent on some
favorite object, and breaking through the restraints of the
Constitution in pursuit of it, would be arrested in their career, by
considerations drawn from a censorial revision of their conduct at the
future distance of ten, fifteen, or twenty years? In the next place,
the abuses would often have completed their mischievous effects before
the remedial provision would be applied. And in the last place, where
this might not be the case, they would be of long standing, would have
taken deep root, and would not easily be extirpated. The scheme of
revising the constitution, in order to correct recent breaches of it,
as well as for other purposes, has been actually tried in one of the
States. One of the objects of the Council of Censors which met in
Pennsylvania in 1783 and 1784, was, as we have seen, to inquire,
"whether the constitution had been violated, and whether the
legislative and executive departments had encroached upon each
other. " This important and novel experiment in politics merits, in
several points of view, very particular attention. In some of them it
may, perhaps, as a single experiment, made under circumstances
somewhat peculiar, be thought to be not absolutely conclusive. But as
applied to the case under consideration, it involves some facts, which
I venture to remark, as a complete and satisfactory illustration of
the reasoning which I have employed. First. It appears, from the names
of the gentlemen who composed the council, that some, at least, of its
most active members had also been active and leading characters in the
parties which pre-existed in the State.

Secondly. It appears that the same active and leading members of the
council had been active and influential members of the legislative and
executive branches, within the period to be reviewed; and even patrons
or opponents of the very measures to be thus brought to the test of
the constitution. Two of the members had been vice-presidents of the
State, and several other members of the executive council, within the
seven preceding years. One of them had been speaker, and a number of
others distinguished members, of the legislative assembly within the
same period.

Thirdly. Every page of their proceedings witnesses the effect of all
these circumstances on the temper of their deliberations. Throughout
the continuance of the council, it was split into two fixed and
violent parties. The fact is acknowledged and lamented by
themselves. Had this not been the case, the face of their proceedings
exhibits a proof equally satisfactory. In all questions, however
unimportant in themselves, or unconnected with each other, the same
names stand invariably contrasted on the opposite columns. Every
unbiased observer may infer, without danger of mistake, and at the
same time without meaning to reflect on either party, or any
individuals of either party, that, unfortunately, PASSION, not REASON,
must have presided over their decisions. When men exercise their
reason coolly and freely on a variety of distinct questions, they
inevitably fall into different opinions on some of them. When they are
governed by a common passion, their opinions, if they are so to be
called, will be the same.

Fourthly. It is at least problematical, whether the decisions of this
body do not, in several instances, misconstrue the limits prescribed
for the legislative and executive departments, instead of reducing and
limiting them within their constitutional places.

Fifthly. I have never understood that the decisions of the council on
constitutional questions, whether rightly or erroneously formed, have
had any effect in varying the practice founded on legislative
constructions. It even appears, if I mistake not, that in one instance
the contemporary legislature denied the constructions of the council,
and actually prevailed in the contest. This censorial body, therefore,
proves at the same time, by its researches, the existence of the
disease, and by its example, the inefficacy of the remedy. This
conclusion cannot be invalidated by alleging that the State in which
the experiment was made was at that crisis, and had been for a long
time before, violently heated and distracted by the rage of party. Is
it to be presumed, that at any future septennial epoch the same State
will be free from parties? Is it to be presumed that any other State,
at the same or any other given period, will be exempt from them? Such
an event ought to be neither presumed nor desired; because an
extinction of parties necessarily implies either a universal alarm for
the public safety, or an absolute extinction of liberty. Were the
precaution taken of excluding from the assemblies elected by the
people, to revise the preceding administration of the government, all
persons who should have been concerned with the government within the
given period, the difficulties would not be obviated. The important
task would probably devolve on men, who, with inferior capacities,
would in other respects be little better qualified. Although they
might not have been personally concerned in the administration, and
therefore not immediately agents in the measures to be examined, they
would probably have been involved in the parties connected with these
measures, and have been elected under their auspices.
TO WHAT expedient, then, shall we finally resort, for maintaining in
practice the necessary partition of power among the several
departments, as laid down in the Constitution? The only answer that
can be given is, that as all these exterior provisions are found to be
inadequate, the defect must be supplied, by so contriving the interior
structure of the government as that its several constituent parts may,
by their mutual relations, be the means of keeping each other in their
proper places. Without presuming to undertake a full development of
this important idea, I will hazard a few general observations, which
may perhaps place it in a clearer light, and enable us to form a more
correct judgment of the principles and structure of the government
planned by the convention. In order to lay a due foundation for that
separate and distinct exercise of the different powers of government,
which to a certain extent is admitted on all hands to be essential to
the preservation of liberty, it is evident that each department should
have a will of its own; and consequently should be so constituted that
the members of each should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of the members of the others. Were this principle
rigorously adhered to, it would require that all the appointments for
the supreme executive, legislative, and judiciary magistracies should
be drawn from the same fountain of authority, the people, through
channels having no communication whatever with one another. Perhaps
such a plan of constructing the several departments would be less
difficult in practice than it may in contemplation appear. Some
difficulties, however, and some additional expense would attend the
execution of it. Some deviations, therefore, from the principle must
be admitted. In the constitution of the judiciary department in
particular, it might be inexpedient to insist rigorously on the
principle: first, because peculiar qualifications being essential in
the members, the primary consideration ought to be to select that mode
of choice which best secures these qualifications; secondly, because
the permanent tenure by which the appointments are held in that
department, must soon destroy all sense of dependence on the authority
conferring them. It is equally evident, that the members of each
department should be as little dependent as possible on those of the
others, for the emoluments annexed to their offices. Were the
executive magistrate, or the judges, not independent of the
legislature in this particular, their independence in every other
would be merely nominal. But the great security against a gradual
concentration of the several powers in the same department, consists
in giving to those who administer each department the necessary
constitutional means and personal motives to resist encroachments of
the others. The provision for defense must in this, as in all other
cases, be made commensurate to the danger of attack. Ambition must be
made to counteract ambition. The interest of the man must be connected
with the constitutional rights of the place. It may be a reflection on
human nature, that such devices should be necessary to control the
abuses of government. But what is government itself, but the greatest
of all reflections on human nature? If men were angels, no government
would be necessary. If angels were to govern men, neither external nor
internal controls on government would be necessary. In framing a
government which is to be administered by men over men, the great
difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to
control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control
itself. A dependence on the people is, no doubt, the primary control
on the government; but experience has taught mankind the necessity of
auxiliary precautions. This policy of supplying, by opposite and rival
interests, the defect of better motives, might be traced through the
whole system of human affairs, private as well as public. We see it
particularly displayed in all the subordinate distributions of power,
where the constant aim is to divide and arrange the several offices in
such a manner as that each may be a check on the other that the
private interest of every individual may be a sentinel over the public
rights. These inventions of prudence cannot be less requisite in the
distribution of the supreme powers of the State. But it is not
possible to give to each department an equal power of self-defense. In
republican government, the legislative authority necessarily
predominates. The remedy for this inconveniency is to divide the
legislature into different branches; and to render them, by different
modes of election and different principles of action, as little
connected with each other as the nature of their common functions and
their common dependence on the society will admit. It may even be
necessary to guard against dangerous encroachments by still further
precautions. As the weight of the legislative authority requires that
it should be thus divided, the weakness of the executive may require,
on the other hand, that it should be fortified. An absolute negative
on the legislature appears, at first view, to be the natural defense
with which the executive magistrate should be armed. But perhaps it
would be neither altogether safe nor alone sufficient. On ordinary
occasions it might not be exerted with the requisite firmness, and on
extraordinary occasions it might be perfidiously abused. May not this
defect of an absolute negative be supplied by some qualified
connection between this weaker department and the weaker branch of the
stronger department, by which the latter may be led to support the
constitutional rights of the former, without being too much detached
from the rights of its own department? If the principles on which
these observations are founded be just, as I persuade myself they are,
and they be applied as a criterion to the several State constitutions,
and to the federal Constitution it will be found that if the latter
does not perfectly correspond with them, the former are infinitely
less able to bear such a test. There are, moreover, two considerations
particularly applicable to the federal system of America, which place
that system in a very interesting point of view. First. In a single
republic, all the power surrendered by the people is submitted to the
administration of a single government; and the usurpations are guarded
against by a division of the government into distinct and separate
departments. In the compound republic of America, the power
surrendered by the people is first divided between two distinct
governments, and then the portion allotted to each subdivided among
distinct and separate departments. Hence a double security arises to
the rights of the people. The different governments will control each
other, at the same time that each will be controlled by
itself. Second. It is of great importance in a republic not only to
guard the society against the oppression of its rulers, but to guard
one part of the society against the injustice of the other
part. Different interests necessarily exist in different classes of
citizens. If a majority be united by a common interest, the rights of
the minority will be insecure. There are but two methods of providing
against this evil: the one by creating a will in the community
independent of the majority that is, of the society itself; the other,
by comprehending in the society so many separate descriptions of
citizens as will render an unjust combination of a majority of the
whole very improbable, if not impracticable. The first method prevails
in all governments possessing an hereditary or self-appointed
authority. This, at best, is but a precarious security; because a
power independent of the society may as well espouse the unjust views
of the major, as the rightful interests of the minor party, and may
possibly be turned against both parties. The second method will be
exemplified in the federal republic of the United States. Whilst all
authority in it will be derived from and dependent on the society, the
society itself will be broken into so many parts, interests, and
classes of citizens, that the rights of individuals, or of the
minority, will be in little danger from interested combinations of the
majority. In a free government the security for civil rights must be
the same as that for religious rights. It consists in the one case in
the multiplicity of interests, and in the other in the multiplicity of
sects. The degree of security in both cases will depend on the number
of interests and sects; and this may be presumed to depend on the
extent of country and number of people comprehended under the same
government. This view of the subject must particularly recommend a
proper federal system to all the sincere and considerate friends of
republican government, since it shows that in exact proportion as the
territory of the Union may be formed into more circumscribed
Confederacies, or States oppressive combinations of a majority will be
facilitated: the best security, under the republican forms, for the
rights of every class of citizens, will be diminished: and
consequently the stability and independence of some member of the
government, the only other security, must be proportionately
increased. Justice is the end of government. It is the end of civil
society. It ever has been and ever will be pursued until it be
obtained, or until liberty be lost in the pursuit. In a society under
the forms of which the stronger faction can readily unite and oppress
the weaker, anarchy may as truly be said to reign as in a state of
nature, where the weaker individual is not secured against the
violence of the stronger; and as, in the latter state, even the
stronger individuals are prompted, by the uncertainty of their
condition, to submit to a government which may protect the weak as
well as themselves; so, in the former state, will the more powerful
factions or parties be gradnally induced, by a like motive, to wish
for a government which will protect all parties, the weaker as well as
the more powerful. It can be little doubted that if the State of Rhode
Island was separated from the Confederacy and left to itself, the
insecurity of rights under the popular form of government within such
narrow limits would be displayed by such reiterated oppressions of
factious majorities that some power altogether independent of the
people would soon be called for by the voice of the very factions
whose misrule had proved the necessity of it. In the extended republic
of the United States, and among the great variety of interests,
parties, and sects which it embraces, a coalition of a majority of the
whole society could seldom take place on any other principles than
those of justice and the general good; whilst there being thus less
danger to a minor from the will of a major party, there must be less
pretext, also, to provide for the security of the former, by
introducing into the government a will not dependent on the latter,
or, in other words, a will independent of the society itself. It is no
less certain than it is important, notwithstanding the contrary
opinions which have been entertained, that the larger the society,
provided it lie within a practical sphere, the more duly capable it
will be of self-government. And happily for the REPUBLICAN CAUSE, the
practicable sphere may be carried to a very great extent, by a
judicious modification and mixture of the FEDERAL PRINCIPLE.
FROM the more general inquiries pursued in the four last papers, I
pass on to a more particular examination of the several parts of the
government. I shall begin with the House of Representatives. The first
view to be taken of this part of the government relates to the
qualifications of the electors and the elected. Those of the former
are to be the same with those of the electors of the most numerous
branch of the State legislatures.

The definition of the right of suffrage is very justly regarded as a
fundamental article of republican government. It was incumbent on the
convention, therefore, to define and establish this right in the
Constitution. To have left it open for the occasional regulation of
the Congress, would have been improper for the reason just
mentioned. To have submitted it to the legislative discretion of the
States, would have been improper for the same reason; and for the
additional reason that it would have rendered too dependent on the
State governments that branch of the federal government which ought to
be dependent on the people alone. To have reduced the different
qualifications in the different States to one uniform rule, would
probably have been as dissatisfactory to some of the States as it
would have been difficult to the convention. The provision made by the
convention appears, therefore, to be the best that lay within their
option.

It must be satisfactory to every State, because it is conformable to
the standard already established, or which may be established, by the
State itself. It will be safe to the United States, because, being
fixed by the State constitutions, it is not alterable by the State
governments, and it cannot be feared that the people of the States
will alter this part of their constitutions in such a manner as to
abridge the rights secured to them by the federal Constitution. The
qualifications of the elected, being less carefully and properly
defined by the State constitutions, and being at the same time more
susceptible of uniformity, have been very properly considered and
regulated by the convention. A representative of the United States
must be of the age of twenty-five years; must have been seven years a
citizen of the United States; must, at the time of his election, be an
inhabitant of the State he is to represent; and, during the time of
his service, must be in no office under the United States. Under these
reasonable limitations, the door of this part of the federal
government is open to merit of every description, whether native or
adoptive, whether young or old, and without regard to poverty or
wealth, or to any particular profession of religious faith. The term
for which the representatives are to be elected falls under a second
view which may be taken of this branch. In order to decide on the
propriety of this article, two questions must be considered: first,
whether biennial elections will, in this case, be safe; secondly,
whether they be necessary or useful. First. As it is essential to
liberty that the government in general should have a common interest
with the people, so it is particularly essential that the branch of it
under consideration should have an immediate dependence on, and an
intimate sympathy with, the people. Frequent elections are
unquestionably the only policy by which this dependence and sympathy
can be effectually secured. But what particular degree of frequency
may be absolutely necessary for the purpose, does not appear to be
susceptible of any precise calculation, and must depend on a variety
of circumstances with which it may be connected. Let us consult
experience, the guide that ought always to be followed whenever it can
be found. The scheme of representation, as a substitute for a meeting
of the citizens in person, being at most but very imperfectly known to
ancient polity, it is in more modern times only that we are to expect
instructive examples. And even here, in order to avoid a research too
vague and diffusive, it will be proper to confine ourselves to the few
examples which are best known, and which bear the greatest analogy to
our particular case. The first to which this character ought to be
applied, is the House of Commons in Great Britain. The history of this
branch of the English Constitution, anterior to the date of Magna
Charta, is too obscure to yield instruction. The very existence of it
has been made a question among political antiquaries. The earliest
records of subsequent date prove that parliaments were to SIT only
every year; not that they were to be ELECTED every year. And even
these annual sessions were left so much at the discretion of the
monarch, that, under various pretexts, very long and dangerous
intermissions were often contrived by royal ambition. To remedy this
grievance, it was provided by a statute in the reign of Charles II. ,
that the intermissions should not be protracted beyond a period of
three years. On the accession of William III. , when a revolution took
place in the government, the subject was still more seriously resumed,
and it was declared to be among the fundamental rights of the people
that parliaments ought to be held FREQUENTLY. By another statute,
which passed a few years later in the same reign, the term
"frequently," which had alluded to the triennial period settled in the
time of Charles II. , is reduced to a precise meaning, it being
expressly enacted that a new parliament shall be called within three
years after the termination of the former. The last change, from three
to seven years, is well known to have been introduced pretty early in
the present century, under on alarm for the Hanoverian
succession. From these facts it appears that the greatest frequency of
elections which has been deemed necessary in that kingdom, for binding
the representatives to their constituents, does not exceed a triennial
return of them. And if we may argue from the degree of liberty
retained even under septennial elections, and all the other vicious
ingredients in the parliamentary constitution, we cannot doubt that a
reduction of the period from seven to three years, with the other
necessary reforms, would so far extend the influence of the people
over their representatives as to satisfy us that biennial elections,
under the federal system, cannot possibly be dangerous to the
requisite dependence of the House of Representatives on their
constituents. Elections in Ireland, till of late, were regulated
entirely by the discretion of the crown, and were seldom repeated,
except on the accession of a new prince, or some other contingent
event. The parliament which commenced with George II. was continued
throughout his whole reign, a period of about thirty-five years. The
only dependence of the representatives on the people consisted in the
right of the latter to supply occasional vacancies by the election of
new members, and in the chance of some event which might produce a
general new election.

The ability also of the Irish parliament to maintain the rights of
their constituents, so far as the disposition might exist, was
extremely shackled by the control of the crown over the subjects of
their deliberation. Of late these shackles, if I mistake not, have
been broken; and octennial parliaments have besides been
established. What effect may be produced by this partial reform, must
be left to further experience. The example of Ireland, from this view
of it, can throw but little light on the subject. As far as we can
draw any conclusion from it, it must be that if the people of that
country have been able under all these disadvantages to retain any
liberty whatever, the advantage of biennial elections would secure to
them every degree of liberty, which might depend on a due connection
between their representatives and themselves. Let us bring our
inquiries nearer home. The example of these States, when British
colonies, claims particular attention, at the same time that it is so
well known as to require little to be said on it. The principle of
representation, in one branch of the legislature at least, was
established in all of them. But the periods of election were
different. They varied from one to seven years. Have we any reason to
infer, from the spirit and conduct of the representatives of the
people, prior to the Revolution, that biennial elections would have
been dangerous to the public liberties? The spirit which everywhere
displayed itself at the commencement of the struggle, and which
vanquished the obstacles to independence, is the best of proofs that a
sufficient portion of liberty had been everywhere enjoyed to inspire
both a sense of its worth and a zeal for its proper enlargement This
remark holds good, as well with regard to the then colonies whose
elections were least frequent, as to those whose elections were most
frequent Virginia was the colony which stood first in resisting the
parliamentary usurpations of Great Britain; it was the first also in
espousing, by public act, the resolution of independence.

In Virginia, nevertheless, if I have not been misinformed, elections
under the former government were septennial. This particular example
is brought into view, not as a proof of any peculiar merit, for the
priority in those instances was probably accidental; and still less of
any advantage in SEPTENNIAL elections, for when compared with a
greater frequency they are inadmissible; but merely as a proof, and I
conceive it to be a very substantial proof, that the liberties of the
people can be in no danger from BIENNIAL elections. The conclusion
resulting from these examples will be not a little strengthened by
recollecting three circumstances. The first is, that the federal
legislature will possess a part only of that supreme legislative
authority which is vested completely in the British Parliament; and
which, with a few exceptions, was exercised by the colonial assemblies
and the Irish legislature. It is a received and well-founded maxim,
that where no other circumstances affect the case, the greater the
power is, the shorter ought to be its duration; and, conversely, the
smaller the power, the more safely may its duration be protracted. In
the second place, it has, on another occasion, been shown that the
federal legislature will not only be restrained by its dependence on
its people, as other legislative bodies are, but that it will be,
moreover, watched and controlled by the several collateral
legislatures, which other legislative bodies are not. And in the third
place, no comparison can be made between the means that will be
possessed by the more permanent branches of the federal government for
seducing, if they should be disposed to seduce, the House of
Representatives from their duty to the people, and the means of
influence over the popular branch possessed by the other branches of
the government above cited. With less power, therefore, to abuse, the
federal representatives can be less tempted on one side, and will be
doubly watched on the other.
I SHALL here, perhaps, be reminded of a current observation, "that
where annual elections end, tyranny begins. " If it be true, as has
often been remarked, that sayings which become proverbial are
generally founded in reason, it is not less true, that when once
established, they are often applied to cases to which the reason of
them does not extend. I need not look for a proof beyond the case
before us. What is the reason on which this proverbial observation is
founded? No man will subject himself to the ridicule of pretending
that any natural connection subsists between the sun or the seasons,
and the period within which human virtue can bear the temptations of
power. Happily for mankind, liberty is not, in this respect, confined
to any single point of time; but lies within extremes, which afford
sufficient latitude for all the variations which may be required by
the various situations and circumstances of civil society. The
election of magistrates might be, if it were found expedient, as in
some instances it actually has been, daily, weekly, or monthly, as
well as annual; and if circumstances may require a deviation from the
rule on one side, why not also on the other side? Turning our
attention to the periods established among ourselves, for the election
of the most numerous branches of the State legislatures, we find them
by no means coinciding any more in this instance, than in the
elections of other civil magistrates. In Connecticut and Rhode Island,
the periods are half-yearly. In the other States, South Carolina
excepted, they are annual. In South Carolina they are biennial as is
proposed in the federal government. Here is a difference, as four to
one, between the longest and shortest periods; and yet it would be not
easy to show, that Connecticut or Rhode Island is better governed, or
enjoys a greater share of rational liberty, than South Carolina; or
that either the one or the other of these States is distinguished in
these respects, and by these causes, from the States whose elections
are different from both. In searching for the grounds of this
doctrine, I can discover but one, and that is wholly inapplicable to
our case. The important distinction so well understood in America,
between a Constitution established by the people and unalterable by
the government, and a law established by the government and alterable
by the government, seems to have been little understood and less
observed in any other country. Wherever the supreme power of
legislation has resided, has been supposed to reside also a full power
to change the form of the government. Even in Great Britain, where the
principles of political and civil liberty have been most discussed,
and where we hear most of the rights of the Constitution, it is
maintained that the authority of the Parliament is transcendent and
uncontrollable, as well with regard to the Constitution, as the
ordinary objects of legislative provision. They have accordingly, in
several instances, actually changed, by legislative acts, some of the
most fundamental articles of the government. They have in particular,
on several occasions, changed the period of election; and, on the last
occasion, not only introduced septennial in place of triennial
elections, but by the same act, continued themselves in place four
years beyond the term for which they were elected by the people. An
attention to these dangerous practices has produced a very natural
alarm in the votaries of free government, of which frequency of
elections is the corner-stone; and has led them to seek for some
security to liberty, against the danger to which it is exposed. Where
no Constitution, paramount to the government, either existed or could
be obtained, no constitutional security, similar to that established
in the United States, was to be attempted. Some other security,
therefore, was to be sought for; and what better security would the
case admit, than that of selecting and appealing to some simple and
familiar portion of time, as a standard for measuring the danger of
innovations, for fixing the national sentiment, and for uniting the
patriotic exertions? The most simple and familiar portion of time,
applicable to the subject was that of a year; and hence the doctrine
has been inculcated by a laudable zeal, to erect some barrier against
the gradual innovations of an unlimited government, that the advance
towards tyranny was to be calculated by the distance of departure from
the fixed point of annual elections. But what necessity can there be
of applying this expedient to a government limited, as the federal
government will be, by the authority of a paramount Constitution? Or
who will pretend that the liberties of the people of America will not
be more secure under biennial elections, unalterably fixed by such a
Constitution, than those of any other nation would be, where elections
were annual, or even more frequent, but subject to alterations by the
ordinary power of the government? The second question stated is,
whether biennial elections be necessary or useful. The propriety of
answering this question in the affirmative will appear from several
very obvious considerations. No man can be a competent legislator who
does not add to an upright intention and a sound judgment a certain
degree of knowledge of the subjects on which he is to legislate. A
part of this knowledge may be acquired by means of information which
lie within the compass of men in private as well as public
stations. Another part can only be attained, or at least thoroughly
attained, by actual experience in the station which requires the use
of it. The period of service, ought, therefore, in all such cases, to
bear some proportion to the extent of practical knowledge requisite to
the due performance of the service. The period of legislative service
established in most of the States for the more numerous branch is, as
we have seen, one year. The question then may be put into this simple
form: does the period of two years bear no greater proportion to the
knowledge requisite for federal legislation than one year does to the
knowledge requisite for State legislation? The very statement of the
question, in this form, suggests the answer that ought to be given to
it. In a single State, the requisite knowledge relates to the existing
laws which are uniform throughout the State, and with which all the
citizens are more or less conversant; and to the general affairs of
the State, which lie within a small compass, are not very diversified,
and occupy much of the attention and conversation of every class of
people. The great theatre of the United States presents a very
different scene. The laws are so far from being uniform, that they
vary in every State; whilst the public affairs of the Union are spread
throughout a very extensive region, and are extremely diversified by t
e local affairs connected with them, and can with difficulty be
correctly learnt in any other place than in the central councils to
which a knowledge of them will be brought by the representatives of
every part of the empire. Yet some knowledge of the affairs, and even
of the laws, of all the States, ought to be possessed by the members
from each of the States. How can foreign trade be properly regulated
by uniform laws, without some acquaintance with the commerce, the
ports, the usages, and the regulatious of the different States? How
can the trade between the different States be duly regulated, without
some knowledge of their relative situations in these and other
respects? How can taxes be judiciously imposed and effectually
collected, if they be not accommodated to the different laws and local
circumstances relating to these objects in the different States? How
can uniform regulations for the militia be duly provided, without a
similar knowledge of many internal circumstances by which the States
are distinguished from each other? These are the principal objects of
federal legislation, and suggest most forcibly the extensive
information which the representatives ought to acquire. The other
interior objects will require a proportional degree of information
with regard to them. It is true that all these difficulties will, by
degrees, be very much diminished. The most laborious task will be the
proper inauguration of the government and the primeval formation of a
federal code. Improvements on the first draughts will every year
become both easier and fewer. Past transactions of the government will
be a ready and accurate source of information to new members. The
affairs of the Union will become more and more objects of curiosity
and conversation among the citizens at large. And the increased
intercourse among those of different States will contribute not a
little to diffuse a mutual knowledge of their affairs, as this again
will contribute to a general assimilation of their manners and
laws. But with all these abatements, the business of federal
legislation must continue so far to exceed, both in novelty and
difficulty, the legislative business of a single State, as to justify
the longer period of service assigned to those who are to transact
it. A branch of knowledge which belongs to the acquirements of a
federal representative, and which has not been mentioned is that of
foreign affairs. In regulating our own commerce he ought to be not
only acquainted with the treaties between the United States and other
nations, but also with the commercial policy and laws of other
nations. He ought not to be altogether ignorant of the law of nations;
for that, as far as it is a proper object of municipal legislation, is
submitted to the federal government.

And although the House of Representatives is not immediately to
participate in foreign negotiations and arrangements, yet from the
necessary connection between the several branches of public affairs,
those particular branches will frequently deserve attention in the
ordinary course of legislation, and will sometimes demand particular
legislative sanction and co-operation. Some portion of this knowledge
may, no doubt, be acquired in a man's closet; but some of it also can
only be derived from the public sources of information; and all of it
will be acquired to best effect by a practical attention to the
subject during the period of actual service in the legislature.

There are other considerations, of less importance, perhaps, but which
are not unworthy of notice. The distance which many of the
representatives will be obliged to travel, and the arrangements
rendered necessary by that circumstance, might be much more serious
objections with fit men to this service, if limited to a single year,
than if extended to two years. No argument can be drawn on this
subject, from the case of the delegates to the existing Congress. They
are elected annually, it is true; but their re-election is considered
by the legislative assemblies almost as a matter of course. The
election of the representatives by the people would not be governed by
the same principle. A few of the members, as happens in all such
assemblies, will possess superior talents; will, by frequent
reelections, become members of long standing; will be thoroughly
masters of the public business, and perhaps not unwilling to avail
themselves of those advantages. The greater the proportion of new
members, and the less the information of the bulk of the members the
more apt will they be to fall into the snares that may be laid for
them. This remark is no less applicable to the relation which will
subsist between the House of Representatives and the Senate. It is an
inconvenience mingled with the advantages of our frequent elections
even in single States, where they are large, and hold but one
legislative session in a year, that spurious elections cannot be
investigated and annulled in time for the decision to have its due
effect. If a return can be obtained, no matter by what unlawful means,
the irregular member, who takes his seat of course, is sure of holding
it a sufficient time to answer his purposes. Hence, a very pernicious
encouragement is given to the use of unlawful means, for obtaining
irregular returns. Were elections for the federal legislature to be
annual, this practice might become a very serious abuse, particularly
in the more distant States. Each house is, as it necessarily must be,
the judge of the elections, qualifications, and returns of its
members; and whatever improvements may be suggested by experience, for
simplifying and accelerating the process in disputed cases, so great a
portion of a year would unavoidably elapse, before an illegitimate
member could be dispossessed of his seat, that the prospect of such an
event would be little check to unfair and illicit means of obtaining a
seat. All these considerations taken together warrant us in affirming,
that biennial elections will be as useful to the affairs of the public
as we have seen that they will be safe to the liberty of the people.
THE next view which I shall take of the House of Representatives
relates to the appointment of its members to the several States which
is to be determined by the same rule with that of direct taxes. It is
not contended that the number of people in each State ought not to be
the standard for regulating the proportion of those who are to
represent the people of each State. The establishment of the same rule
for the appointment of taxes, will probably be as little contested;
though the rule itself in this case, is by no means founded on the
same principle. In the former case, the rule is understood to refer to
the personal rights of the people, with which it has a natural and
universal connection.

In the latter, it has reference to the proportion of wealth, of which
it is in no case a precise measure, and in ordinary cases a very unfit
one. But notwithstanding the imperfection of the rule as applied to
the relative wealth and contributions of the States, it is evidently
the least objectionable among the practicable rules, and had too
recently obtained the general sanction of America, not to have found a
ready preference with the convention. All this is admitted, it will
perhaps be said; but does it follow, from an admission of numbers for
the measure of representation, or of slaves combined with free
citizens as a ratio of taxation, that slaves ought to be included in
the numerical rule of representation? Slaves are considered as
property, not as persons. They ought therefore to be comprehended in
estimates of taxation which are founded on property, and to be
excluded from representation which is regulated by a census of
persons. This is the objection, as I understand it, stated in its full
force. I shall be equally candid in stating the reasoning which may be
offered on the opposite side. "We subscribe to the doctrine," might
one of our Southern brethren observe, "that representation relates
more immediately to persons, and taxation more immediately to
property, and we join in the application of this distinction to the
case of our slaves. But we must deny the fact, that slaves are
considered merely as property, and in no respect whatever as
persons. The true state of the case is, that they partake of both
these qualities: being considered by our laws, in some respects, as
persons, and in other respects as property. In being compelled to
labor, not for himself, but for a master; in being vendible by one
master to another master; and in being subject at all times to be
restrained in his liberty and chastised in his body, by the capricious
will of another, the slave may appear to be degraded from the human
rank, and classed with those irrational animals which fall under the
legal denomination of property. In being protected, on the other hand,
in his life and in his limbs, against the violence of all others, even
the master of his labor and his liberty; and in being punishable
himself for all violence committed against others, the slave is no
less evidently regarded by the law as a member of the society, not as
a part of the irrational creation; as a moral person, not as a mere
article of property. The federal Constitution, therefore, decides with
great propriety on the case of our slaves, when it views them in the
mixed character of persons and of property. This is in fact their true
character. It is the character bestowed on them by the laws under
which they live; and it will not be denied, that these are the proper
criterion; because it is only under the pretext that the laws have
transformed the negroes into subjects of property, that a place is
disputed them in the computation of numbers; and it is admitted, that
if the laws were to restore the rights which have been taken away, the
negroes could no longer be refused an equal share of representation
with the other inhabitants. "This question may be placed in another
light. It is agreed on all sides, that numbers are the best scale of
wealth and taxation, as they are the only proper scale of
representation. Would the convention have been impartial or
consistent, if they had rejected the slaves from the list of
inhabitants, when the shares of representation were to be calculated,
and inserted them on the lists when the tariff of contributions was to
be adjusted? Could it be reasonably expected, that the Southern States
would concur in a system, which considered their slaves in some degree
as men, when burdens were to be imposed, but refused to consider them
in the same light, when advantages were to be conferred? Might not
some surprise also be expressed, that those who reproach the Southern
States with the barbarous policy of considering as property a part of
their human brethren, should themselves contend, that the government
to which all the States are to be parties, ought to consider this
unfortunate race more completely in the unnatural light of property,
than the very laws of which they complain? "It may be replied,
perhaps, that slaves are not included in the estimate of
representatives in any of the States possessing them. They neither
vote themselves nor increase the votes of their masters. Upon what
principle, then, ought they to be taken into the federal estimate of
representation? In rejecting them altogether, the Constitution would,
in this respect, have followed the very laws which have been appealed
to as the proper guide. "This objection is repelled by a single
observation. It is a fundamental principle of the proposed
Constitution, that as the aggregate number of representatives allotted
to the several States is to be determined by a federal rule, founded
on the aggregate number of inhabitants, so the right of choosing this
allotted number in each State is to be exercised by such part of the
inhabitants as the State itself may designate. The qualifications on
which the right of suffrage depend are not, perhaps, the same in any
two States. In some of the States the difference is very material. In
every State, a certain proportion of inhabitants are deprived of this
right by the constitution of the State, who will be included in the
census by which the federal Constitution apportions the
representatives.

In this point of view the Southern States might retort the complaint,
by insisting that the principle laid down by the convention required
that no regard should be had to the policy of particular States
towards their own inhabitants; and consequently, that the slaves, as
inhabitants, should have been admitted into the census according to
their full number, in like manner with other inhabitants, who, by the
policy of other States, are not admitted to all the rights of
citizens. A rigorous adherence, however, to this principle, is waived
by those who would be gainers by it. All that they ask is that equal
moderation be shown on the other side. Let the case of the slaves be
considered, as it is in truth, a peculiar one. Let the compromising
expedient of the Constitution be mutually adopted, which regards them
as inhabitants, but as debased by servitude below the equal level of
free inhabitants, which regards the SLAVE as divested of two fifths of
the MAN. "After all, may not another ground be taken on which this
article of the Constitution will admit of a still more ready defense?
We have hitherto proceeded on the idea that representation related to
persons only, and not at all to property. But is it a just idea?
Government is instituted no less for protection of the property, than
of the persons, of individuals. The one as well as the other,
therefore, may be considered as represented by those who are charged
with the government. Upon this principle it is, that in several of the
States, and particularly in the State of New York, one branch of the
government is intended more especially to be the guardian of property,
and is accordingly elected by that part of the society which is most
interested in this object of government. In the federal Constitution,
this policy does not prevail. The rights of property are committed
into the same hands with the personal rights. Some attention ought,
therefore, to be paid to property in the choice of those hands. "For
another reason, the votes allowed in the federal legislature to the
people of each State, ought to bear some proportion to the comparative
wealth of the States. States have not, like individuals, an influence
over each other, arising from superior advantages of fortune. If the
law allows an opulent citizen but a single vote in the choice of his
representative, the respect and consequence which he derives from his
fortunate situation very frequently guide the votes of others to the
objects of his choice; and through this imperceptible channel the
rights of property are conveyed into the public representation. A
State possesses no such influence over other States. It is not
probable that the richest State in the Confederacy will ever influence
the choice of a single representative in any other State. Nor will the
representatives of the larger and richer States possess any other
advantage in the federal legislature, over the representatives of
other States, than what may result from their superior number
alone. As far, therefore, as their superior wealth and weight may
justly entitle them to any advantage, it ought to be secured to them
by a superior share of representation. The new Constitution is, in
this respect, materially different from the existing Confederation, as
well as from that of the United Netherlands, and other similar
confederacies. In each of the latter, the efficacy of the federal
resolutions depends on the subsequent and voluntary resolutions of the
states composing the union. Hence the states, though possessing an
equal vote in the public councils, have an unequal influence,
corresponding with the unequal importance of these subsequent and
voluntary resolutions. Under the proposed Constitution, the federal
acts will take effect without the necessary intervention of the
individual States. They will depend merely on the majority of votes in
the federal legislature, and consequently each vote, whether
proceeding from a larger or smaller State, or a State more or less
wealthy or powerful, will have an equal weight and efficacy: in the
same manner as the votes individually given in a State legislature, by
the representatives of unequal counties or other districts, have each
a precise equality of value and effect; or if there be any difference
in the case, it proceeds from the difference in the personal character
of the individual representative, rather than from any regard to the
extent of the district from which he comes. "Such is the reasoning
which an advocate for the Southern interests might employ on this
subject; and although it may appear to be a little strained in some
points, yet, on the whole, I must confess that it fully reconciles me
to the scale of representation which the convention have
established. In one respect, the establishment of a common measure for
representation and taxation will have a very salutary effect. As the
accuracy of the census to be obtained by the Congress will necessarily
depend, in a considerable degree on the disposition, if not on the
co-operation, of the States, it is of great importance that the States
should feel as little bias as possible, to swell or to reduce the
amount of their numbers. Were their share of representation alone to
be governed by this rule, they would have an interest in exaggerating
their inhabitants. Were the rule to decide their share of taxation
alone, a contrary temptation would prevail. By extending the rule to
both objects, the States will have opposite interests, which will
control and balance each other, and produce the requisite
impartiality.
THE SECOND charge against the House of Representatives is, that it
will be too small to possess a due knowledge of the interests of its
constituents. As this objection evidently proceeds from a comparison
of the proposed number of representatives with the great extent of the
United States, the number of their inhabitants, and the diversity of
their interests, without taking into view at the same time the
circumstances which will distinguish the Congress from other
legislative bodies, the best answer that can be given to it will be a
brief explanation of these peculiarities. It is a sound and important
principle that the representative ought to be acquainted with the
interests and circumstances of his constituents. But this principle
can extend no further than to those circumstances and interests to
which the authority and care of the representative relate. An
ignorance of a variety of minute and particular objects, which do not
lie within the compass of legislation, is consistent with every
attribute necessary to a due performance of the legislative trust. In
determining the extent of information required in the exercise of a
particular authority, recourse then must be had to the objects within
the purview of that authority. What are to be the objects of federal
legislation? Those which are of most importance, and which seem most
to require local knowledge, are commerce, taxation, and the militia. A
proper regulation of commerce requires much information, as has been
elsewhere remarked; but as far as this information relates to the laws
and local situation of each individual State, a very few
representatives would be very sufficient vehicles of it to the federal
councils. Taxation will consist, in a great measure, of duties which
will be involved in the regulation of commerce. So far the preceding
remark is applicable to this object. As far as it may consist of
internal collections, a more diffusive knowledge of the circumstances
of the State may be necessary. But will not this also be possessed in
sufficient degree by a very few intelligent men, diffusively elected
within the State? Divide the largest State into ten or twelve
districts, and it will be found that there will be no peculiar local
interests in either, which will not be within the knowledge of the
representative of the district. Besides this source of information,
the laws of the State, framed by representatives from every part of
it, will be almost of themselves a sufficient guide. In every State
there have been made, and must continue to be made, regulations on
this subject which will, in many cases, leave little more to be done
by the federal legislature, than to review the different laws, and
reduce them in one general act. A skillful individual in his closet
with all the local codes before him, might compile a law on some
subjects of taxation for the whole union, without any aid from oral
information, and it may be expected that whenever internal taxes may
be necessary, and particularly in cases requiring uniformity
throughout the States, the more simple objects will be preferred. To
be fully sensible of the facility which will be given to this branch
of federal legislation by the assistance of the State codes, we need
only suppose for a moment that this or any other State were divided
into a number of parts, each having and exercising within itself a
power of local legislation. Is it not evident that a degree of local
information and preparatory labor would be found in the several
volumes of their proceedings, which would very much shorten the labors
of the general legislature, and render a much smaller number of
members sufficient for it? The federal councils will derive great
advantage from another circumstance. The representatives of each State
will not only bring with them a considerable knowledge of its laws,
and a local knowledge of their respective districts, but will probably
in all cases have been members, and may even at the very time be
members, of the State legislature, where all the local information and
interests of the State are assembled, and from whence they may easily
be conveyed by a very few hands into the legislature of the United
States. The observations made on the subject of taxation apply with
greater force to the case of the militia. For however different the
rules of discipline may be in different States, they are the same
throughout each particular State; and depend on circumstances which
can differ but little in different parts of the same State. The
attentive reader will discern that the reasoning here used, to prove
the sufficiency of a moderate number of representatives, does not in
any respect contradict what was urged on another occasion with regard
to the extensive information which the representatives ought to
possess, and the time that might be necessary for acquiring it. This
information, so far as it may relate to local objects, is rendered
necessary and difficult, not by a difference of laws and local
circumstances within a single State, but of those among different
States. Taking each State by itself, its laws are the same, and its
interests but little diversified. A few men, therefore, will possess
all the knowledge requisite for a proper representation of them. Were
the interests and affairs of each individual State perfectly simple
and uniform, a knowledge of them in one part would involve a knowledge
of them in every other, and the whole State might be competently
represented by a single member taken from any part of it. On a
comparison of the different States together, we find a great
dissimilarity in their laws, and in many other circumstances connected
with the objects of federal legislation, with all of which the federal
representatives ought to have some acquaintance. Whilst a few
representatives, therefore, from each State, may bring with them a due
knowledge of their own State, every representative will have much
information to acquire concerning all the other States.

The changes of time, as was formerly remarked, on the comparative
situation of the different States, will have an assimilating
effect. The effect of time on the internal affairs of the States,
taken singly, will be just the contrary. At present some of the States
are little more than a society of husbandmen. Few of them have made
much progress in those branches of industry which give a variety and
complexity to the affairs of a nation. These, however, will in all of
them be the fruits of a more advanced population, and will require, on
the part of each State, a fuller representation. The foresight of the
convention has accordingly taken care that the progress of population
may be accompanied with a proper increase of the representative branch
of the government. The experience of Great Britain, which presents to
mankind so many political lessons, both of the monitory and exemplary
kind, and which has been frequently consulted in the course of these
inquiries, corroborates the result of the reflections which we have
just made. The number of inhabitants in the two kingdoms of England
and Scotland cannot be stated at less than eight millions. The
representatives of these eight millions in the House of Commons amount
to five hundred and fifty-eight.

Of this number, one ninth are elected by three hundred and sixty-four
persons, and one half, by five thousand seven hundred and twenty-three
persons. [1] It cannot be supposed that the half thus elected, and who
do not even reside among the people at large, can add any thing either
to the security of the people against the government, or to the
knowledge of their circumstances and interests in the legislative
councils. On the contrary, it is notorious, that they are more
frequently the representatives and instruments of the executive
magistrate, than the guardians and advocates of the popular
rights. They might therefore, with great propriety, be considered as
something more than a mere deduction from the real representatives of
the nation. We will, however, consider them in this light alone, and
will not extend the deduction to a considerable number of others, who
do not reside among their constituents, are very faintly connected
with them, and have very little particular knowledge of their
affairs. With all these concessions, two hundred and seventy-nine
persons only will be the depository of the safety, interest, and
happiness of eight millions that is to say, there will be one
representative only to maintain the rights and explain the situation
OF TWENTY-EIGHT THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED AND SEVENTY constituents, in an
assembly exposed to the whole force of executive influence, and
extending its authority to every object of legislation within a nation
whose affairs are in the highest degree diversified and
complicated. Yet it is very certain, not only that a valuable portion
of freedom has been preserved under all these circumstances, but that
the defects in the British code are chargeable, in a very small
proportion, on the ignorance of the legislature concerning the
circumstances of the people. Allowing to this case the weight which is
due to it, and comparing it with that of the House of Representatives
as above explained it seems to give the fullest assurance, that a
representative for every THIRTY THOUSAND INHABITANTS will render the
latter both a safe and competent guardian of the interests which will
be confided to it.
THE THIRD charge against the House of Representatives is, that it will
be taken from that class of citizens which will have least sympathy
with the mass of the people, and be most likely to aim at an ambitious
sacrifice of the many to the aggrandizement of the few. Of all the
objections which have been framed against the federal Constitution,
this is perhaps the most extraordinary.

Whilst the objection itself is levelled against a pretended oligarchy,
the principle of it strikes at the very root of republican
government. The aim of every political constitution is, or ought to
be, first to obtain for rulers men who possess most wisdom to discern,
and most virtue to pursue, the common good of the society; and in the
next place, to take the most effectual precautions for keeping them
virtuous whilst they continue to hold their public trust. The elective
mode of obtaining rulers is the characteristic policy of republican
government. The means relied on in this form of government for
preventing their degeneracy are numerous and various. The most
effectual one, is such a limitation of the term of appointments as
will maintain a proper responsibility to the people. Let me now ask
what circumstance there is in the constitution of the House of
Representatives that violates the principles of republican government,
or favors the elevation of the few on the ruins of the many? Let me
ask whether every circumstance is not, on the contrary, strictly
conformable to these principles, and scrupulously impartial to the
rights and pretensions of every class and description of citizens? Who
are to be the electors of the federal representatives? Not the rich,
more than the poor; not the learned, more than the ignorant; not the
haughty heirs of distinguished names, more than the humble sons of
obscurity and unpropitious fortune. The electors are to be the great
body of the people of the United States. They are to be the same who
exercise the right in every State of electing the corresponding branch
of the legislature of the State. Who are to be the objects of popular
choice? Every citizen whose merit may recommend him to the esteem and
confidence of his country. No qualification of wealth, of birth, of
religious faith, or of civil profession is permitted to fetter the
judgement or disappoint the inclination of the people. If we consider
the situation of the men on whom the free suffrages of their
fellow-citizens may confer the representative trust, we shall find it
involving every security which can be devised or desired for their
fidelity to their constituents. In the first place, as they will have
been distinguished by the preference of their fellow-citizens, we are
to presume that in general they will be somewhat distinguished also by
those qualities which entitle them to it, and which promise a sincere
and scrupulous regard to the nature of their engagements. In the
second place, they will enter into the public service under
circumstances which cannot fail to produce a temporary affection at
least to their constituents. There is in every breast a sensibility to
marks of honor, of favor, of esteem, and of confidence, which, apart
from all considerations of interest, is some pledge for grateful and
benevolent returns.

Ingratitude is a common topic of declamation against human nature; and
it must be confessed that instances of it are but too frequent and
flagrant, both in public and in private life. But the universal and
extreme indignation which it inspires is itself a proof of the energy
and prevalence of the contrary sentiment.

In the third place, those ties which bind the representative to his
constituents are strengthened by motives of a more selfish nature. His
pride and vanity attach him to a form of government which favors his
pretensions and gives him a share in its honors and
distinctions. Whatever hopes or projects might be entertained by a few
aspiring characters, it must generally happen that a great proportion
of the men deriving their advancement from their influence with the
people, would have more to hope from a preservation of the favor, than
from innovations in the government subversive of the authority of the
people. All these securities, however, would be found very
insufficient without the restraint of frequent elections. Hence, in
the fourth place, the House of Representatives is so constituted as to
support in the members an habitual recollection of their dependence on
the people. Before the sentiments impressed on their minds by the mode
of their elevation can be effaced by the exercise of power, they will
be compelled to anticipate the moment when their power is to cease,
when their exercise of it is to be reviewed, and when they must
descend to the level from which they were raised; there forever to
remain unless a faithful discharge of their trust shall have
established their title to a renewal of it. I will add, as a fifth
circumstance in the situation of the House of Representatives,
restraining them from oppressive measures, that they can make no law
which will not have its full operation on themselves and their
friends, as well as on the great mass of the society. This has always
been deemed one of the strongest bonds by which human policy can
connect the rulers and the people together. It creates between them
that communion of interests and sympathy of sentiments, of which few
governments have furnished examples; but without which every
government degenerates into tyranny. If it be asked, what is to
restrain the House of Representatives from making legal
discriminations in favor of themselves and a particular class of the
society? I answer: the genius of the whole system; the nature of just
and constitutional laws; and above all, the vigilant and manly spirit
which actuates the people of America, a spirit which nourishes
freedom, and in return is nourished by it. If this spirit shall ever
be so far debased as to tolerate a law not obligatory on the
legislature, as well as on the people, the people will be prepared to
tolerate any thing but liberty. Such will be the relation between the
House of Representatives and their constituents. Duty, gratitude,
interest, ambition itself, are the chords by which they will be bound
to fidelity and sympathy with the great mass of the people.

It is possible that these may all be insufficient to control the
caprice and wickedness of man. But are they not all that government
will admit, and that human prudence can devise? Are they not the
genuine and the characteristic means by which republican government
provides for the liberty and happiness of the people? Are they not the
identical means on which every State government in the Union relies
for the attainment of these important ends? What then are we to
understand by the objection which this paper has combated? What are we
to say to the men who profess the most flaming zeal for republican
government, yet boldly impeach the fundamental principle of it; who
pretend to be champions for the right and the capacity of the people
to choose their own rulers, yet maintain that they will prefer those
only who will immediately and infallibly betray the trust committed to
them? Were the objection to be read by one who had not seen the mode
prescribed by the Constitution for the choice of representatives, he
could suppose nothing less than that some unreasonable qualification
of property was annexed to the right of suffrage; or that the right of
eligibility was limited to persons of particular families or fortunes;
or at least that the mode prescribed by the State constitutions was in
some respect or other, very grossly departed from. We have seen how
far such a supposition would err, as to the two first points. Nor
would it, in fact, be less erroneous as to the last. The only
difference discoverable between the two cases is, that each
representative of the United States will be elected by five or six
thousand citizens; whilst in the individual States, the election of a
representative is left to about as many hundreds. Will it be pretended
that this difference is sufficient to justify an attachment to the
State governments, and an abhorrence to the federal government? If
this be the point on which the objection turns, it deserves to be
examined. Is it supported by REASON?  This cannot be said, without
maintaining that five or six thousand citizens are less capable of
choosing a fit representative, or more liable to be corrupted by an
unfit one, than five or six hundred. Reason, on the contrary, assures
us, that as in so great a number a fit representative would be most
likely to be found, so the choice would be less likely to be diverted
from him by the intrigues of the ambitious or the ambitious or the
bribes of the rich. Is the CONSEQUENCE from this doctrine admissible?
If we say that five or six hundred citizens are as many as can jointly
exercise their right of suffrage, must we not deprive the people of
the immediate choice of their public servants, in every instance where
the administration of the government does not require as many of them
as will amount to one for that number of citizens? Is the doctrine
warranted by FACTS? It was shown in the last paper, that the real
representation in the British House of Commons very little exceeds the
proportion of one for every thirty thousand inhabitants. Besides a
variety of powerful causes not existing here, and which favor in that
country the pretensions of rank and wealth, no person is eligible as a
representative of a county, unless he possess real estate of the clear
value of six hundred pounds sterling per year; nor of a city or
borough, unless he possess a like estate of half that annual value. To
this qualification on the part of the county representatives is added
another on the part of the county electors, which restrains the right
of suffrage to persons having a freehold estate of the annual value of
more than twenty pounds sterling, according to the present rate of
money. Notwithstanding these unfavorable circumstances, and
notwithstanding some very unequal laws in the British code, it cannot
be said that the representatives of the nation have elevated the few
on the ruins of the many. But we need not resort to foreign experience
on this subject. Our own is explicit and decisive. The districts in
New Hampshire in which the senators are chosen immediately by the
people, are nearly as large as will be necessary for her
representatives in the Congress. Those of Massachusetts are larger
than will be necessary for that purpose; and those of New York still
more so.

In the last State the members of Assembly for the cities and counties
of New York and Albany are elected by very nearly as many voters as
will be entitled to a representative in the Congress, calculating on
the number of sixty-five representatives only. It makes no difference
that in these senatorial districts and counties a number of
representatives are voted for by each elector at the same time. If the
same electors at the same time are capable of choosing four or five
representatives, they cannot be incapable of choosing
one. Pennsylvania is an additional example. Some of her counties,
which elect her State representatives, are almost as large as her
districts will be by which her federal representatives will be
elected. The city of Philadelphia is supposed to contain between fifty
and sixty thousand souls. It will therefore form nearly two districts
for the choice of federal representatives. It forms, however, but one
county, in which every elector votes for each of its representatives
in the State legislature. And what may appear to be still more
directly to our purpose, the whole city actually elects a SINGLE
MEMBER for the executive council. This is the case in all the other
counties of the State. Are not these facts the most satisfactory
proofs of the fallacy which has been employed against the branch of
the federal government under consideration? Has it appeared on trial
that the senators of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and New York, or
the executive council of Pennsylvania, or the members of the Assembly
in the two last States, have betrayed any peculiar disposition to
sacrifice the many to the few, or are in any respect less worthy of
their places than the representatives and magistrates appointed in
other States by very small divisions of the people? But there are
cases of a stronger complexion than any which I have yet quoted.

One branch of the legislature of Connecticut is so constituted that
each member of it is elected by the whole State. So is the governor of
that State, of Massachusetts, and of this State, and the president of
New Hampshire. I leave every man to decide whether the result of any
one of these experiments can be said to countenance a suspicion, that
a diffusive mode of choosing representatives of the people tends to
elevate traitors and to undermine the public liberty.
HAVING examined the constitution of the House of Representatives, and
answered such of the objections against it as seemed to merit notice,
I enter next on the examination of the Senate.

The heads into which this member of the government may be considered
are: I. The qualification of senators; II. The appointment of them by
the State legislatures; III. The equality of representation in the
Senate; IV. The number of senators, and the term for which they are to
be elected; V. The powers vested in the Senate.

I. The qualifications proposed for senators, as distinguished from
those of representatives, consist in a more advanced age and a longer
period of citizenship. A senator must be thirty years of age at least;
as a representative must be twenty-five. And the former must have been
a citizen nine years; as seven years are required for the latter. The
propriety of these distinctions is explained by the nature of the
senatorial trust, which, requiring greater extent of information and
stability of character, requires at the same time that the senator
should have reached a period of life most likely to supply these
advantages; and which, participating immediately in transactions with
foreign nations, ought to be exercised by none who are not thoroughly
weaned from the prepossessions and habits incident to foreign birth
and education. The term of nine years appears to be a prudent
mediocrity between a total exclusion of adopted citizens, whose merits
and talents may claim a share in the public confidence, and an
indiscriminate and hasty admission of them, which might create a
channel for foreign influence on the national councils.

II. It is equally unnecessary to dilate on the appointment of senators
by the State legislatures. Among the various modes which might have
been devised for constituting this branch of the government, that
which has been proposed by the convention is probably the most
congenial with the public opinion. It is recommended by the double
advantage of favoring a select appointment, and of giving to the State
governments such an agency in the formation of the federal government
as must secure the authority of the former, and may form a convenient
link between the two systems.

III. The equality of representation in the Senate is another point,
which, being evidently the result of compromise between the opposite
pretensions of the large and the small States, does not call for much
discussion. If indeed it be right, that among a people thoroughly
incorporated into one nation, every district ought to have a
PROPORTIONAL share in the government, and that among independent and
sovereign States, bound together by a simple league, the parties,
however unequal in size, ought to have an EQUAL share in the common
councils, it does not appear to be without some reason that in a
compound republic, partaking both of the national and federal
character, the government ought to be founded on a mixture of the
principles of proportional and equal representation. But it is
superfluous to try, by the standard of theory, a part of the
Constitution which is allowed on all hands to be the result, not of
theory, but "of a spirit of amity, and that mutual deference and
concession which the peculiarity of our political situation rendered
indispensable." A common government, with powers equal to its objects,
is called for by the voice, and still more loudly by the political
situation, of America. A government founded on principles more
consonant to the wishes of the larger States, is not likely to be
obtained from the smaller States. The only option, then, for the
former, lies between the proposed government and a government still
more objectionable. Under this alternative, the advice of prudence
must be to embrace the lesser evil; and, instead of indulging a
fruitless anticipation of the possible mischiefs which may ensue, to
contemplate rather the advantageous consequences which may qualify the
sacrifice.

In this spirit it may be remarked, that the equal vote allowed to each
State is at once a constitutional recognition of the portion of
sovereignty remaining in the individual States, and an instrument for
preserving that residuary sovereignty. So far the equality ought to be
no less acceptable to the large than to the small States; since they
are not less solicitous to guard, by every possible expedient, against
an improper consolidation of the States into one simple republic.

Another advantage accruing from this ingredient in the constitution of
the Senate is, the additional impediment it must prove against
improper acts of legislation. No law or resolution can now be passed
without the concurrence, first, of a majority of the people, and then,
of a majority of the States. It must be acknowledged that this
complicated check on legislation may in some instances be injurious as
well as beneficial; and that the peculiar defense which it involves in
favor of the smaller States, would be more rational, if any interests
common to them, and distinct from those of the other States, would
otherwise be exposed to peculiar danger. But as the larger States will
always be able, by their power over the supplies, to defeat
unreasonable exertions of this prerogative of the lesser States, and
as the faculty and excess of law-making seem to be the diseases to
which our governments are most liable, it is not impossible that this
part of the Constitution may be more convenient in practice than it
appears to many in contemplation.

IV. The number of senators, and the duration of their appointment,
come next to be considered. In order to form an accurate judgment on
both of these points, it will be proper to inquire into the purposes
which are to be answered by a senate; and in order to ascertain these,
it will be necessary to review the inconveniences which a republic
must suffer from the want of such an institution.

First. It is a misfortune incident to republican government, though in
a less degree than to other governments, that those who administer it
may forget their obligations to their constituents, and prove
unfaithful to their important trust. In this point of view, a senate,
as a second branch of the legislative assembly, distinct from, and
dividing the power with, a first, must be in all cases a salutary
check on the government. It doubles the security to the people, by
requiring the concurrence of two distinct bodies in schemes of
usurpation or perfidy, where the ambition or corruption of one would
otherwise be sufficient. This is a precaution founded on such clear
principles, and now so well understood in the United States, that it
would be more than superfluous to enlarge on it. I will barely remark,
that as the improbability of sinister combinations will be in
proportion to the dissimilarity in the genius of the two bodies, it
must be politic to distinguish them from each other by every
circumstance which will consist with a due harmony in all proper
measures, and with the genuine principles of republican government.

Secondly. The necessity of a senate is not less indicated by the
propensity of all single and numerous assemblies to yield to the
impulse of sudden and violent passions, and to be seduced by factious
leaders into intemperate and pernicious resolutions. Examples on this
subject might be cited without number; and from proceedings within the
United States, as well as from the history of other nations. But a
position that will not be contradicted, need not be proved. All that
need be remarked is, that a body which is to correct this infirmity
ought itself to be free from it, and consequently ought to be less
numerous. It ought, moreover, to possess great firmness, and
consequently ought to hold its authority by a tenure of considerable
duration.

Thirdly. Another defect to be supplied by a senate lies in a want of
due acquaintance with the objects and principles of legislation. It is
not possible that an assembly of men called for the most part from
pursuits of a private nature, continued in appointment for a short
time, and led by no permanent motive to devote the intervals of public
occupation to a study of the laws, the affairs, and the comprehensive
interests of their country, should, if left wholly to themselves,
escape a variety of important errors in the exercise of their
legislative trust. It may be affirmed, on the best grounds, that no
small share of the present embarrassments of America is to be charged
on the blunders of our governments; and that these have proceeded from
the heads rather than the hearts of most of the authors of them. What
indeed are all the repealing, explaining, and amending laws, which
fill and disgrace our voluminous codes, but so many monuments of
deficient wisdom; so many impeachments exhibited by each succeeding
against each preceding session; so many admonitions to the people, of
the value of those aids which may be expected from a well-constituted
senate?  A good government implies two things: first, fidelity to the
object of government, which is the happiness of the people; secondly,
a knowledge of the means by which that object can be best
attained. Some governments are deficient in both these qualities; most
governments are deficient in the first. I scruple not to assert, that
in American governments too little attention has been paid to the
last. The federal Constitution avoids this error; and what merits
particular notice, it provides for the last in a mode which increases
the security for the first.

Fourthly. The mutability in the public councils arising from a rapid
succession of new members, however qualified they may be, points out,
in the strongest manner, the necessity of some stable institution in
the government. Every new election in the States is found to change
one half of the representatives. From this change of men must proceed
a change of opinions; and from a change of opinions, a change of
measures. But a continual change even of good measures is inconsistent
with every rule of prudence and every prospect of success. The remark
is verified in private life, and becomes more just, as well as more
important, in national transactions.

To trace the mischievous effects of a mutable government would fill a
volume. I will hint a few only, each of which will be perceived to be
a source of innumerable others.

In the first place, it forfeits the respect and confidence of other
nations, and all the advantages connected with national character. An
individual who is observed to be inconstant to his plans, or perhaps
to carry on his affairs without any plan at all, is marked at once, by
all prudent people, as a speedy victim to his own unsteadiness and
folly. His more friendly neighbors may pity him, but all will decline
to connect their fortunes with his; and not a few will seize the
opportunity of making their fortunes out of his. One nation is to
another what one individual is to another; with this melancholy
distinction perhaps, that the former, with fewer of the benevolent
emotions than the latter, are under fewer restraints also from taking
undue advantage from the indiscretions of each other. Every nation,
consequently, whose affairs betray a want of wisdom and stability, may
calculate on every loss which can be sustained from the more
systematic policy of their wiser neighbors. But the best instruction
on this subject is unhappily conveyed to America by the example of her
own situation. She finds that she is held in no respect by her
friends; that she is the derision of her enemies; and that she is a
prey to every nation which has an interest in speculating on her
fluctuating councils and embarrassed affairs.

The internal effects of a mutable policy are still more calamitous. It
poisons the blessing of liberty itself. It will be of little avail to
the people, that the laws are made by men of their own choice, if the
laws be so voluminous that they cannot be read, or so incoherent that
they cannot be understood; if they be repealed or revised before they
are promulgated, or undergo such incessant changes that no man, who
knows what the law is to-day, can guess what it will be to-morrow. Law
is defined to be a rule of action; but how can that be a rule, which
is little known, and less fixed?  Another effect of public instability
is the unreasonable advantage it gives to the sagacious, the
enterprising, and the moneyed few over the industrious and uniformed
mass of the people. Every new regulation concerning commerce or
revenue, or in any way affecting the value of the different species of
property, presents a new harvest to those who watch the change, and
can trace its consequences; a harvest, reared not by themselves, but
by the toils and cares of the great body of their
fellow-citizens. This is a state of things in which it may be said
with some truth that laws are made for the FEW, not for the MANY.

In another point of view, great injury results from an unstable
government. The want of confidence in the public councils damps every
useful undertaking, the success and profit of which may depend on a
continuance of existing arrangements. What prudent merchant will
hazard his fortunes in any new branch of commerce when he knows not
but that his plans may be rendered unlawful before they can be
executed? What farmer or manufacturer will lay himself out for the
encouragement given to any particular cultivation or establishment,
when he can have no assurance that his preparatory labors and advances
will not render him a victim to an inconstant government? In a word,
no great improvement or laudable enterprise can go forward which
requires the auspices of a steady system of national policy.

But the most deplorable effect of all is that diminution of attachment
and reverence which steals into the hearts of the people, towards a
political system which betrays so many marks of infirmity, and
disappoints so many of their flattering hopes. No government, any more
than an individual, will long be respected without being truly
respectable; nor be truly respectable, without possessing a certain
portion of order and stability.
A FIFTH desideratum, illustrating the utility of a senate, is the want
of a due sense of national character. Without a select and stable
member of the government, the esteem of foreign powers will not only
be forfeited by an unenlightened and variable policy, proceeding from
the causes already mentioned, but the national councils will not
possess that sensibility to the opinion of the world, which is perhaps
not less necessary in order to merit, than it is to obtain, its
respect and confidence.

An attention to the judgment of other nations is important to every
government for two reasons: the one is, that, independently of the
merits of any particular plan or measure, it is desirable, on various
accounts, that it should appear to other nations as the offspring of a
wise and honorable policy; the second is, that in doubtful cases,
particularly where the national councils may be warped by some strong
passion or momentary interest, the presumed or known opinion of the
impartial world may be the best guide that can be followed. What has
not America lost by her want of character with foreign nations; and
how many errors and follies would she not have avoided, if the justice
and propriety of her measures had, in every instance, been previously
tried by the light in which they would probably appear to the unbiased
part of mankind?  Yet however requisite a sense of national character
may be, it is evident that it can never be sufficiently possessed by a
numerous and changeable body. It can only be found in a number so
small that a sensible degree of the praise and blame of public
measures may be the portion of each individual; or in an assembly so
durably invested with public trust, that the pride and consequence of
its members may be sensibly incorporated with the reputation and
prosperity of the community. The half-yearly representatives of Rhode
Island would probably have been little affected in their deliberations
on the iniquitous measures of that State, by arguments drawn from the
light in which such measures would be viewed by foreign nations, or
even by the sister States; whilst it can scarcely be doubted that if
the concurrence of a select and stable body had been necessary, a
regard to national character alone would have prevented the calamities
under which that misguided people is now laboring.

I add, as a SIXTH defect the want, in some important cases, of a due
responsibility in the government to the people, arising from that
frequency of elections which in other cases produces this
responsibility. This remark will, perhaps, appear not only new, but
paradoxical. It must nevertheless be acknowledged, when explained, to
be as undeniable as it is important.

Responsibility, in order to be reasonable, must be limited to objects
within the power of the responsible party, and in order to be
effectual, must relate to operations of that power, of which a ready
and proper judgment can be formed by the constituents. The objects of
government may be divided into two general classes: the one depending
on measures which have singly an immediate and sensible operation; the
other depending on a succession of well-chosen and well-connected
measures, which have a gradual and perhaps unobserved operation. The
importance of the latter description to the collective and permanent
welfare of every country, needs no explanation. And yet it is evident
that an assembly elected for so short a term as to be unable to
provide more than one or two links in a chain of measures, on which
the general welfare may essentially depend, ought not to be answerable
for the final result, any more than a steward or tenant, engaged for
one year, could be justly made to answer for places or improvements
which could not be accomplished in less than half a dozen years. Nor
is it possible for the people to estimate the SHARE of influence which
their annual assemblies may respectively have on events resulting from
the mixed transactions of several years. It is sufficiently difficult
to preserve a personal responsibility in the members of a NUMEROUS
body, for such acts of the body as have an immediate, detached, and
palpable operation on its constituents.

The proper remedy for this defect must be an additional body in the
legislative department, which, having sufficient permanency to provide
for such objects as require a continued attention, and a train of
measures, may be justly and effectually answerable for the attainment
of those objects.

Thus far I have considered the circumstances which point out the
necessity of a well-constructed Senate only as they relate to the
representatives of the people. To a people as little blinded by
prejudice or corrupted by flattery as those whom I address, I shall
not scruple to add, that such an institution may be sometimes
necessary as a defense to the people against their own temporary
errors and delusions. As the cool and deliberate sense of the
community ought, in all governments, and actually will, in all free
governments, ultimately prevail over the views of its rulers; so there
are particular moments in public affairs when the people, stimulated
by some irregular passion, or some illicit advantage, or misled by the
artful misrepresentations of interested men, may call for measures
which they themselves will afterwards be the most ready to lament and
condemn. In these critical moments, how salutary will be the
interference of some temperate and respectable body of citizens, in
order to check the misguided career, and to suspend the blow meditated
by the people against themselves, until reason, justice, and truth can
regain their authority over the public mind? What bitter anguish would
not the people of Athens have often escaped if their government had
contained so provident a safeguard against the tyranny of their own
passions? Popular liberty might then have escaped the indelible
reproach of decreeing to the same citizens the hemlock on one day and
statues on the next.

It may be suggested, that a people spread over an extensive region
cannot, like the crowded inhabitants of a small district, be subject
to the infection of violent passions, or to the danger of combining in
pursuit of unjust measures. I am far from denying that this is a
distinction of peculiar importance. I have, on the contrary,
endeavored in a former paper to show, that it is one of the principal
recommendations of a confederated republic. At the same time, this
advantage ought not to be considered as superseding the use of
auxiliary precautions. It may even be remarked, that the same extended
situation, which will exempt the people of America from some of the
dangers incident to lesser republics, will expose them to the
inconveniency of remaining for a longer time under the influence of
those misrepresentations which the combined industry of interested men
may succeed in distributing among them.

It adds no small weight to all these considerations, to recollect that
history informs us of no long-lived republic which had not a
senate. Sparta, Rome, and Carthage are, in fact, the only states to
whom that character can be applied. In each of the two first there was
a senate for life. The constitution of the senate in the last is less
known. Circumstantial evidence makes it probable that it was not
different in this particular from the two others. It is at least
certain, that it had some quality or other which rendered it an anchor
against popular fluctuations; and that a smaller council, drawn out of
the senate, was appointed not only for life, but filled up vacancies
itself. These examples, though as unfit for the imitation, as they are
repugnant to the genius, of America, are, notwithstanding, when
compared with the fugitive and turbulent existence of other ancient
republics, very instructive proofs of the necessity of some
institution that will blend stability with liberty. I am not unaware
of the circumstances which distinguish the American from other popular
governments, as well ancient as modern; and which render extreme
circumspection necessary, in reasoning from the one case to the
other. But after allowing due weight to this consideration, it may
still be maintained, that there are many points of similitude which
render these examples not unworthy of our attention. Many of the
defects, as we have seen, which can only be supplied by a senatorial
institution, are common to a numerous assembly frequently elected by
the people, and to the people themselves. There are others peculiar to
the former, which require the control of such an institution. The
people can never wilfully betray their own interests; but they may
possibly be betrayed by the representatives of the people; and the
danger will be evidently greater where the whole legislative trust is
lodged in the hands of one body of men, than where the concurrence of
separate and dissimilar bodies is required in every public act.

The difference most relied on, between the American and other
republics, consists in the principle of representation; which is the
pivot on which the former move, and which is supposed to have been
unknown to the latter, or at least to the ancient part of them. The
use which has been made of this difference, in reasonings contained in
former papers, will have shown that I am disposed neither to deny its
existence nor to undervalue its importance. I feel the less restraint,
therefore, in observing, that the position concerning the ignorance of
the ancient governments on the subject of representation, is by no
means precisely true in the latitude commonly given to it. Without
entering into a disquisition which here would be misplaced, I will
refer to a few known facts, in support of what I advance.

In the most pure democracies of Greece, many of the executive
functions were performed, not by the people themselves, but by
officers elected by the people, and REPRESENTING the people in their
EXECUTIVE capacity.

Prior to the reform of Solon, Athens was governed by nine Archons,
annually ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE AT LARGE. The degree of power delegated
to them seems to be left in great obscurity. Subsequent to that
period, we find an assembly, first of four, and afterwards of six
hundred members, annually ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE; and PARTIALLY
representing them in their LEGISLATIVE capacity, since they were not
only associated with the people in the function of making laws, but
had the exclusive right of originating legislative propositions to the
people. The senate of Carthage, also, whatever might be its power, or
the duration of its appointment, appears to have been ELECTIVE by the
suffrages of the people. Similar instances might be traced in most, if
not all the popular governments of antiquity.

Lastly, in Sparta we meet with the Ephori, and in Rome with the
Tribunes; two bodies, small indeed in numbers, but annually ELECTED BY
THE WHOLE BODY OF THE PEOPLE, and considered as the REPRESENTATIVES of
the people, almost in their PLENIPOTENTIARY capacity. The Cosmi of
Crete were also annually ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE, and have been
considered by some authors as an institution analogous to those of
Sparta and Rome, with this difference only, that in the election of
that representative body the right of suffrage was communicated to a
part only of the people.

From these facts, to which many others might be added, it is clear
that the principle of representation was neither unknown to the
ancients nor wholly overlooked in their political constitutions. The
true distinction between these and the American governments, lies IN
THE TOTAL EXCLUSION OF THE PEOPLE, IN THEIR COLLECTIVE CAPACITY, from
any share in the LATTER, and not in the TOTAL EXCLUSION OF THE
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE from the administration of the
FORMER. The distinction, however, thus qualified, must be admitted to
leave a most advantageous superiority in favor of the United
States. But to insure to this advantage its full effect, we must be
careful not to separate it from the other advantage, of an extensive
territory. For it cannot be believed, that any form of representative
government could have succeeded within the narrow limits occupied by
the democracies of Greece.

In answer to all these arguments, suggested by reason, illustrated by
examples, and enforced by our own experience, the jealous adversary of
the Constitution will probably content himself with repeating, that a
senate appointed not immediately by the people, and for the term of
six years, must gradually acquire a dangerous pre-eminence in the
government, and finally transform it into a tyrannical aristocracy.

To this general answer, the general reply ought to be sufficient, that
liberty may be endangered by the abuses of liberty as well as by the
abuses of power; that there are numerous instances of the former as
well as of the latter; and that the former, rather than the latter,
are apparently most to be apprehended by the United States. But a more
particular reply may be given.

Before such a revolution can be effected, the Senate, it is to be
observed, must in the first place corrupt itself; must next corrupt
the State legislatures; must then corrupt the House of
Representatives; and must finally corrupt the people at large. It is
evident that the Senate must be first corrupted before it can attempt
an establishment of tyranny. Without corrupting the State
legislatures, it cannot prosecute the attempt, because the periodical
change of members would otherwise regenerate the whole body. Without
exerting the means of corruption with equal success on the House of
Representatives, the opposition of that coequal branch of the
government would inevitably defeat the attempt; and without corrupting
the people themselves, a succession of new representatives would
speedily restore all things to their pristine order. Is there any man
who can seriously persuade himself that the proposed Senate can, by
any possible means within the compass of human address, arrive at the
object of a lawless ambition, through all these obstructions?  If
reason condemns the suspicion, the same sentence is pronounced by
experience. The constitution of Maryland furnishes the most apposite
example. The Senate of that State is elected, as the federal Senate
will be, indirectly by the people, and for a term less by one year
only than the federal Senate. It is distinguished, also, by the
remarkable prerogative of filling up its own vacancies within the term
of its appointment, and, at the same time, is not under the control of
any such rotation as is provided for the federal Senate. There are
some other lesser distinctions, which would expose the former to
colorable objections, that do not lie against the latter. If the
federal Senate, therefore, really contained the danger which has been
so loudly proclaimed, some symptoms at least of a like danger ought by
this time to have been betrayed by the Senate of Maryland, but no such
symptoms have appeared. On the contrary, the jealousies at first
entertained by men of the same description with those who view with
terror the correspondent part of the federal Constitution, have been
gradually extinguished by the progress of the experiment; and the
Maryland constitution is daily deriving, from the salutary operation
of this part of it, a reputation in which it will probably not be
rivalled by that of any State in the Union.

But if any thing could silence the jealousies on this subject, it
ought to be the British example. The Senate there instead of being
elected for a term of six years, and of being unconfined to particular
families or fortunes, is an hereditary assembly of opulent nobles. The
House of Representatives, instead of being elected for two years, and
by the whole body of the people, is elected for seven years, and, in
very great proportion, by a very small proportion of the people. Here,
unquestionably, ought to be seen in full display the aristocratic
usurpations and tyranny which are at some future period to be
exemplified in the United States. Unfortunately, however, for the
anti-federal argument, the British history informs us that this
hereditary assembly has not been able to defend itself against the
continual encroachments of the House of Representatives; and that it
no sooner lost the support of the monarch, than it was actually
crushed by the weight of the popular branch.

As far as antiquity can instruct us on this subject, its examples
support the reasoning which we have employed. In Sparta, the Ephori,
the annual representatives of the people, were found an overmatch for
the senate for life, continually gained on its authority and finally
drew all power into their own hands. The Tribunes of Rome, who were
the representatives of the people, prevailed, it is well known, in
almost every contest with the senate for life, and in the end gained
the most complete triumph over it. The fact is the more remarkable, as
unanimity was required in every act of the Tribunes, even after their
number was augmented to ten. It proves the irresistible force
possessed by that branch of a free government, which has the people on
its side. To these examples might be added that of Carthage, whose
senate, according to the testimony of Polybius, instead of drawing all
power into its vortex, had, at the commencement of the second Punic
War, lost almost the whole of its original portion.

Besides the conclusive evidence resulting from this assemblage of
facts, that the federal Senate will never be able to transform itself,
by gradual usurpations, into an independent and aristocratic body, we
are warranted in believing, that if such a revolution should ever
happen from causes which the foresight of man cannot guard against,
the House of Representatives, with the people on their side, will at
all times be able to bring back the Constitution to its primitive form
and principles. Against the force of the immediate representatives of
the people, nothing will be able to maintain even the constitutional
authority of the Senate, but such a display of enlightened policy, and
attachment to the public good, as will divide with that branch of the
legislature the affections and support of the entire body of the
people themselves.
