AMONG the numerous advantages promised by a well-constructed Union,
none deserves to be more accurately developed than its tendency to
break and control the violence of faction. The friend of popular
governments never finds himself so much alarmed for their character
and fate, as when he contemplates their propensity to this dangerous
vice. He will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on any plan
which, without violating the principles to which he is attached,
provides a proper cure for it. The instability, injustice, and
confusion introduced into the public councils, have, in truth, been
the mortal diseases under which popular governments have everywhere
perished; as they continue to be the favorite and fruitful topics from
which the adversaries to liberty derive their most specious
declamations. The valuable improvements made by the American
constitutions on the popular models, both ancient and modern, cannot
certainly be too much admired; but it would be an unwarrantable
partiality, to contend that they have as effectually obviated the
danger on this side, as was wished and expected. Complaints are
everywhere heard from our most considerate and virtuous citizens,
equally the friends of public and private faith, and of public and
personal liberty, that our governments are too unstable, that the
public good is disregarded in the conflicts of rival parties, and that
measures are too often decided, not according to the rules of justice
and the rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of an
interested and overbearing majority. However anxiously we may wish
that these complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts
will not permit us to deny that they are in some degree true. It will
be found, indeed, on a candid review of our situation, that some of
the distresses under which we labor have been erroneously charged on
the operation of our governments; but it will be found, at the same
time, that other causes will not alone account for many of our
heaviest misfortunes; and, particularly, for that prevailing and
increasing distrust of public engagements, and alarm for private
rights, which are echoed from one end of the continent to the
other. These must be chiefly, if not wholly, effects of the
unsteadiness and injustice with which a factious spirit has tainted
our public administrations.

By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to
a majority or a minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by
some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adversed to the rights
of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
community.

There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction: the one, by
removing its causes; the other, by controlling its effects.

There are again two methods of removing the causes of faction: the
one, by destroying the liberty which is essential to its existence;
the other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions, the same
passions, and the same interests.

It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that it
was worse than the disease. Liberty is to faction what air is to fire,
an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could not be
less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life,
because it nourishes faction, than it would be to wish the
annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life, because it
imparts to fire its destructive agency.

The second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be
unwise. As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at
liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As long as
the connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his
opinions and his passions will have a reciprocal influence on each
other; and the former will be objects to which the latter will attach
themselves. The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the
rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a
uniformity of interests. The protection of these faculties is the
first object of government. From the protection of different and
unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different
degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the
influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective
proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests
and parties.

The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man; and
we see them everywhere brought into different degrees of activity,
according to the different circumstances of civil society. A zeal for
different opinions concerning religion, concerning government, and
many other points, as well of speculation as of practice; an
attachment to different leaders ambitiously contending for
pre-eminence and power; or to persons of other descriptions whose
fortunes have been interesting to the human passions, have, in turn,
divided mankind into parties, inflamed them with mutual animosity, and
rendered them much more disposed to vex and oppress each other than to
co-operate for their common good. So strong is this propensity of
mankind to fall into mutual animosities, that where no substantial
occasion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful distinctions
have been sufficient to kindle their unfriendly passions and excite
their most violent conflicts. But the most common and durable source
of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of
property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever
formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and
those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination. A landed
interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed
interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in
civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by
different sentiments and views. The regulation of these various and
interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation,
and involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and
ordinary operations of the government.

No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause, because his interest
would certainly bias his judgment, and, not improbably, corrupt his
integrity. With equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men are
unfit to be both judges and parties at the same time; yet what are
many of the most important acts of legislation, but so many judicial
determinations, not indeed concerning the rights of single persons,
but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens? And what are
the different classes of legislators but advocates and parties to the
causes which they determine? Is a law proposed concerning private
debts? It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one side
and the debtors on the other. Justice ought to hold the balance
between them. Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the judges;
and the most numerous party, or, in other words, the most powerful
faction must be expected to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be
encouraged, and in what degree, by restrictions on foreign
manufactures? are questions which would be differently decided by the
landed and the manufacturing classes, and probably by neither with a
sole regard to justice and the public good. The apportionment of taxes
on the various descriptions of property is an act which seems to
require the most exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no
legislative act in which greater opportunity and temptation are given
to a predominant party to trample on the rules of justice. Every
shilling with which they overburden the inferior number, is a shilling
saved to their own pockets.

It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust
these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to the
public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the
helm. Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made at all
without taking into view indirect and remote considerations, which
will rarely prevail over the immediate interest which one party may
find in disregarding the rights of another or the good of the whole.

The inference to which we are brought is, that the CAUSES of faction
cannot be removed, and that relief is only to be sought in the means
of controlling its EFFECTS.

If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by
the republican principle, which enables the majority to defeat its
sinister views by regular vote. It may clog the administration, it may
convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its
violence under the forms of the Constitution. When a majority is
included in a faction, the form of popular government, on the other
hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both
the public good and the rights of other citizens. To secure the public
good and private rights against the danger of such a faction, and at
the same time to preserve the spirit and the form of popular
government, is then the great object to which our inquiries are
directed. Let me add that it is the great desideratum by which this
form of government can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it
has so long labored, and be recommended to the esteem and adoption of
mankind.

By what means is this object attainable? Evidently by one of two
only. Either the existence of the same passion or interest in a
majority at the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having
such coexistent passion or interest, must be rendered, by their number
and local situation, unable to concert and carry into effect schemes
of oppression. If the impulse and the opportunity be suffered to
coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religious motives can be
relied on as an adequate control. They are not found to be such on the
injustice and violence of individuals, and lose their efficacy in
proportion to the number combined together, that is, in proportion as
their efficacy becomes needful.

From this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure
democracy, by which I mean a society consisting of a small number of
citizens, who assemble and administer the government in person, can
admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or
interest will, in almost every case, be felt by a majority of the
whole; a communication and concert result from the form of government
itself; and there is nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the
weaker party or an obnoxious individual. Hence it is that such
democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and contention;
have ever been found incompatible with personal security or the rights
of property; and have in general been as short in their lives as they
have been violent in their deaths. Theoretic politicians, who have
patronized this species of government, have erroneously supposed that
by reducing mankind to a perfect equality in their political rights,
they would, at the same time, be perfectly equalized and assimilated
in their possessions, their opinions, and their passions.

A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of
representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises
the cure for which we are seeking. Let us examine the points in which
it varies from pure democracy, and we shall comprehend both the nature
of the cure and the efficacy which it must derive from the Union.

The two great points of difference between a democracy and a republic
are: first, the delegation of the government, in the latter, to a
small number of citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater
number of citizens, and greater sphere of country, over which the
latter may be extended.

The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand, to refine and
enlarge the public views, by passing them through the medium of a
chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true
interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice
will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial
considerations. Under such a regulation, it may well happen that the
public voice, pronounced by the representatives of the people, will be
more consonant to the public good than if pronounced by the people
themselves, convened for the purpose. On the other hand, the effect
may be inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of
sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by corruption, or by other means,
first obtain the suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the
people. The question resulting is, whether small or extensive
republics are more favorable to the election of proper guardians of
the public weal; and it is clearly decided in favor of the latter by
two obvious considerations:

In the first place, it is to be remarked that, however small the
republic may be, the representatives must be raised to a certain
number, in order to guard against the cabals of a few; and that,
however large it may be, they must be limited to a certain number, in
order to guard against the confusion of a multitude. Hence, the number
of representatives in the two cases not being in proportion to that of
the two constituents, and being proportionally greater in the small
republic, it follows that, if the proportion of fit characters be not
less in the large than in the small republic, the former will present
a greater option, and consequently a greater probability of a fit
choice.

In the next place, as each representative will be chosen by a greater
number of citizens in the large than in the small republic, it will be
more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice with success the
vicious arts by which elections are too often carried; and the
suffrages of the people being more free, will be more likely to centre
in men who possess the most attractive merit and the most diffusive
and established characters.

It must be confessed that in this, as in most other cases, there is a
mean, on both sides of which inconveniences will be found to lie. By
enlarging too much the number of electors, you render the
representatives too little acquainted with all their local
circumstances and lesser interests; as by reducing it too much, you
render him unduly attached to these, and too little fit to comprehend
and pursue great and national objects. The federal Constitution forms
a happy combination in this respect; the great and aggregate interests
being referred to the national, the local and particular to the State
legislatures.

The other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens and
extent of territory which may be brought within the compass of
republican than of democratic government; and it is this circumstance
principally which renders factious combinations less to be dreaded in
the former than in the latter. The smaller the society, the fewer
probably will be the distinct parties and interests composing it; the
fewer the distinct parties and interests, the more frequently will a
majority be found of the same party; and the smaller the number of
individuals composing a majority, and the smaller the compass within
which they are placed, the more easily will they concert and execute
their plans of oppression. Extend the sphere, and you take in a
greater variety of parties and interests; you make it less probable
that a majority of the whole will have a common motive to invade the
rights of other citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it will
be more difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength,
and to act in unison with each other. Besides other impediments, it
may be remarked that, where there is a consciousness of unjust or
dishonorable purposes, communication is always checked by distrust in
proportion to the number whose concurrence is necessary.

Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advantage which a republic
has over a democracy, in controlling the effects of faction, is
enjoyed by a large over a small republic,--is enjoyed by the Union
over the States composing it. Does the advantage consist in the
substitution of representatives whose enlightened views and virtuous
sentiments render them superior to local prejudices and schemes of
injustice? It will not be denied that the representation of the Union
will be most likely to possess these requisite endowments. Does it
consist in the greater security afforded by a greater variety of
parties, against the event of any one party being able to outnumber
and oppress the rest? In an equal degree does the increased variety of
parties comprised within the Union, increase this security. Does it,
in fine, consist in the greater obstacles opposed to the concert and
accomplishment of the secret wishes of an unjust and interested
majority? Here, again, the extent of the Union gives it the most
palpable advantage.

The influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within their
particular States, but will be unable to spread a general
conflagration through the other States. A religious sect may
degenerate into a political faction in a part of the Confederacy; but
the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face of it must secure
the national councils against any danger from that source. A rage for
paper money, for an abolition of debts, for an equal division of
property, or for any other improper or wicked project, will be less
apt to pervade the whole body of the Union than a particular member of
it; in the same proportion as such a malady is more likely to taint a
particular county or district, than an entire State.

In the extent and proper structure of the Union, therefore, we behold
a republican remedy for the diseases most incident to republican
government. And according to the degree of pleasure and pride we feel
in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in cherishing the spirit
and supporting the character of Federalists.
A FIFTH class of provisions in favor of the federal authority consists
of the following restrictions on the authority of the several
States:1. "No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or
confederation; grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit
bills of credit; make any thing but gold and silver a legal tender in
payment of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex-post-facto law, or
law impairing the obligation of contracts; or grant any title of
nobility. "The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and
confederations makes a part of the existing articles of Union; and for
reasons which need no explanation, is copied into the new
Constitution. The prohibition of letters of marque is another part of
the old system, but is somewhat extended in the new. According to the
former, letters of marque could be granted by the States after a
declaration of war; according to the latter, these licenses must be
obtained, as well during war as previous to its declaration, from the
government of the United States. This alteration is fully justified by
the advantage of uniformity in all points which relate to foreign
powers; and of immediate responsibility to the nation in all those for
whose conduct the nation itself is to be responsible.

The right of coining money, which is here taken from the States, was
left in their hands by the Confederation, as a concurrent right with
that of Congress, under an exception in favor of the exclusive right
of Congress to regulate the alloy and value. In this instance, also,
the new provision is an improvement on the old. Whilst the alloy and
value depended on the general authority, a right of coinage in the
particular States could have no other effect than to multiply
expensive mints and diversify the forms and weights of the circulating
pieces. The latter inconveniency defeats one purpose for which the
power was originally submitted to the federal head; and as far as the
former might prevent an inconvenient remittance of gold and silver to
the central mint for recoinage, the end can be as well attained by
local mints established under the general authority.

The extension of the prohibition to bills of credit must give pleasure
to every citizen, in proportion to his love of justice and his
knowledge of the true springs of public prosperity. The loss which
America has sustained since the peace, from the pestilent effects of
paper money on the necessary confidence between man and man, on the
necessary confidence in the public councils, on the industry and
morals of the people, and on the character of republican government,
constitutes an enormous debt against the States chargeable with this
unadvised measure, which must long remain unsatisfied; or rather an
accumulation of guilt, which can be expiated no otherwise than by a
voluntary sacrifice on the altar of justice, of the power which has
been the instrument of it. In addition to these persuasive
considerations, it may be observed, that the same reasons which show
the necessity of denying to the States the power of regulating coin,
prove with equal force that they ought not to be at liberty to
substitute a paper medium in the place of coin. Had every State a
right to regulate the value of its coin, there might be as many
different currencies as States, and thus the intercourse among them
would be impeded; retrospective alterations in its value might be
made, and thus the citizens of other States be injured, and
animosities be kindled among the States themselves. The subjects of
foreign powers might suffer from the same cause, and hence the Union
be discredited and embroiled by the indiscretion of a single
member. No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power in the
States to emit paper money, than to coin gold or silver. The power to
make any thing but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts, is
withdrawn from the States, on the same principle with that of issuing
a paper currency. Bills of attainder, ex-post-facto laws, and laws
impairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to the first
principles of the social compact, and to every principle of sound
legislation. The two former are expressly prohibited by the
declarations prefixed to some of the State constitutions, and all of
them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental
charters. Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless, that
additional fences against these dangers ought not to be omitted. Very
properly, therefore, have the convention added this constitutional
bulwark in favor of personal security and private rights; and I am
much deceived if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted
the genuine sentiments as the undoubted interests of their
constituents. The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating
policy which has directed the public councils. They have seen with
regret and indignation that sudden changes and legislative
interferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become jobs in the
hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and snares to the
more-industrious and lessinformed part of the community. They have
seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the first link of
a long chain of repetitions, every subsequent interference being
naturally produced by the effects of the preceding. They very rightly
infer, therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting, which will
banish speculations on public measures, inspire a general prudence and
industry, and give a regular course to the business of society. The
prohibition with respect to titles of nobility is copied from the
articles of Confederation and needs no comment. 2. "No State shall,
without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing its inspection laws, and the net produce of all duties and
imposts laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use
of the treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be
subject to the revision and control of the Congress. No State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep troops
or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact
with another State, or with a foreign power, or engage in war unless
actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of
delay. "The restraint on the power of the States over imports and
exports is enforced by all the arguments which prove the necessity of
submitting the regulation of trade to the federal councils. It is
needless, therefore, to remark further on this head, than that the
manner in which the restraint is qualified seems well calculated at
once to secure to the States a reasonable discretion in providing for
the conveniency of their imports and exports, and to the United States
a reasonable check against the abuse of this discretion.

The remaining particulars of this clause fall within reasonings which
are either so obvious, or have been so fully developed, that they may
be passed over without remark. The SIXTH and last class consists of
the several powers and provisions by which efficacy is given to all
the rest. 1. Of these the first is, the "power to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in
the government of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof. "Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed with more
intemperance than this; yet on a fair investigation of it, no part can
appear more completely invulnerable. Without the SUBSTANCE of this
power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter. Those who object
to the article, therefore, as a part of the Constitution, can only
mean that the FORM of the provision is improper. But have they
considered whether a better form could have been substituted? There
are four other possible methods which the Constitution might have
taken on this subject. They might have copied the second article of
the existing Confederation, which would have prohibited the exercise
of any power not EXPRESSLY delegated; they might have attempted a
positive enumeration of the powers comprehended under the general
terms "necessary and proper"; they might have attempted a negative
enumeration of them, by specifying the powers excepted from the
general definition; they might have been altogether silent on the
subject, leaving these necessary and proper powers to construction and
inference. Had the convention taken the first method of adopting the
second article of Confederation, it is evident that the new Congress
would be continually exposed, as their predecessors have been, to the
alternative of construing the term "EXPRESSLY" with so much rigor, as
to disarm the government of all real authority whatever, or with so
much latitude as to destroy altogether the force of the restriction.

It would be easy to show, if it were necessary, that no important
power, delegated by the articles of Confederation, has been or can be
executed by Congress, without recurring more or less to the doctrine
of CONSTRUCTION or IMPLICATION. As the powers delegated under the new
system are more extensive, the government which is to administer it
would find itself still more distressed with the alternative of
betraying the public interests by doing nothing, or of violating the
Constitution by exercising powers indispensably necessary and proper,
but, at the same time, not EXPRESSLY granted. Had the convention
attempted a positive enumeration of the powers necessary and proper
for carrying their other powers into effect, the attempt would have
involved a complete digest of laws on every subject to which the
Constitution relates; accommodated too, not only to the existing state
of things, but to all the possible changes which futurity may produce;
for in every new application of a general power, the PARTICULAR
POWERS, which are the means of attaining the OBJECT of the general
power, must always necessarily vary with that object, and be often
properly varied whilst the object remains the same.

Had they attempted to enumerate the particular powers or means not
necessary or proper for carrying the general powers into execution,
the task would have been no less chimerical; and would have been
liable to this further objection, that every defect in the enumeration
would have been equivalent to a positive grant of authority. If, to
avoid this consequence, they had attempted a partial enumeration of
the exceptions, and described the residue by the general terms, NOT
NECESSARY OR PROPER, it must have happened that the enumeration would
comprehend a few of the excepted powers only; that these would be such
as would be least likely to be assumed or tolerated, because the
enumeration would of course select such as would be least necessary or
proper; and that the unnecessary and improper powers included in the
residuum, would be less forcibly excepted, than if no partial
enumeration had been made. Had the Constitution been silent on this
head, there can be no doubt that all the particular powers requisite
as means of executing the general powers would have resulted to the
government, by unavoidable implication. No axiom is more clearly
established in law, or in reason, than that wherever the end is
required, the means are authorized; wherever a general power to do a
thing is given, every particular power necessary for doing it is
included. Had this last method, therefore, been pursued by the
convention, every objection now urged against their plan would remain
in all its plausibility; and the real inconveniency would be incurred
of not removing a pretext which may be seized on critical occasions
for drawing into question the essential powers of the Union. If it be
asked what is to be the consequence, in case the Congress shall
misconstrue this part of the Constitution, and exercise powers not
warranted by its true meaning, I answer, the same as if they should
misconstrue or enlarge any other power vested in them; as if the
general power had been reduced to particulars, and any one of these
were to be violated; the same, in short, as if the State legislatures
should violate the irrespective constitutional authorities. In the
first instance, the success of the usurpation will depend on the
executive and judiciary departments, which are to expound and give
effect to the legislative acts; and in the last resort a remedy must
be obtained from the people who can, by the election of more faithful
representatives, annul the acts of the usurpers. The truth is, that
this ultimate redress may be more confided in against unconstitutional
acts of the federal than of the State legislatures, for this plain
reason, that as every such act of the former will be an invasion of
the rights of the latter, these will be ever ready to mark the
innovation, to sound the alarm to the people, and to exert their local
influence in effecting a change of federal representatives. There
being no such intermediate body between the State legislatures and the
people interested in watching the conduct of the former, violations of
the State constitutions are more likely to remain unnoticed and
unredressed. 2. "This Constitution and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or
which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall
be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be
bound thereby, any thing in the constitution or laws of any State to
the contrary notwithstanding. "The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries
to the Constitution has betrayed them into an attack on this part of
it also, without which it would have been evidently and radically
defective. To be fully sensible of this, we need only suppose for a
moment that the supremacy of the State constitutions had been left
complete by a saving clause in their favor. In the first place, as
these constitutions invest the State legislatures with absolute
sovereignty, in all cases not excepted by the existing articles of
Confederation, all the authorities contained in the proposed
Constitution, so far as they exceed those enumerated in the
Confederation, would have been annulled, and the new Congress would
have been reduced to the same impotent condition with their
predecessors. In the next place, as the constitutions of some of the
States do not even expressly and fully recognize the existing powers
of the Confederacy, an express saving of the supremacy of the former
would, in such States, have brought into question every power
contained in the proposed Constitution. In the third place, as the
constitutions of the States differ much from each other, it might
happen that a treaty or national law, of great and equal importance to
the States, would interfere with some and not with other
constitutions, and would consequently be valid in some of the States,
at the same time that it would have no effect in others. In fine, the
world would have seen, for the first time, a system of government
founded on an inversion of the fundamental principles of all
government; it would have seen the authority of the whole society
every where subordinate to the authority of the parts; it would have
seen a monster, in which the head was under the direction of the
members. 3. "The Senators and Representatives, and the members of the
several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers,
both of the United States and the several States, shall be bound by
oath or affirmation to support this Constitution. "It has been asked
why it was thought necessary, that the State magistracy should be
bound to support the federal Constitution, and unnecessary that a like
oath should be imposed on the officers of the United States, in favor
of the State constitutions. Several reasons might be assigned for the
distinction. I content myself with one, which is obvious and
conclusive. The members of the federal government will have no agency
in carrying the State constitutions into effect. The members and
officers of the State governments, on the contrary, will have an
essential agency in giving effect to the federal Constitution. The
election of the President and Senate will depend, in all cases, on the
legislatures of the several States. And the election of the House of
Representatives will equally depend on the same authority in the first
instance; and will, probably, forever be conducted by the officers,
and according to the laws, of the States. 4. Among the provisions for
giving efficacy to the federal powers might be added those which
belong to the executive and judiciary departments: but as these are
reserved for particular examination in another place, I pass them over
in this. We have now reviewed, in detail, all the articles composing
the sum or quantity of power delegated by the proposed Constitution to
the federal government, and are brought to this undeniable conclusion,
that no part of the power is unnecessary or improper for accomplishing
the necessary objects of the Union. The question, therefore, whether
this amount of power shall be granted or not, resolves itself into
another question, whether or not a government commensurate to the
exigencies of the Union shall be established; or, in other words,
whether the Union itself shall be preserved.
HAVING shown that no one of the powers transferred to the federal
government is unnecessary or improper, the next question to be
considered is, whether the whole mass of them will be dangerous to the
portion of authority left in the several States. The adversaries to
the plan of the convention, instead of considering in the first place
what degree of power was absolutely necessary for the purposes of the
federal government, have exhausted themselves in a secondary inquiry
into the possible consequences of the proposed degree of power to the
governments of the particular States. But if the Union, as has been
shown, be essential to the security of the people of America against
foreign danger; if it be essential to their security against
contentions and wars among the different States; if it be essential to
guard them against those violent and oppressive factions which
embitter the blessings of liberty, and against those military
establishments which must gradually poison its very fountain; if, in a
word, the Union be essential to the happiness of the people of
America, is it not preposterous, to urge as an objection to a
government, without which the objects of the Union cannot be attained,
that such a government may derogate from the importance of the
governments of the individual States? Was, then, the American
Revolution effected, was the American Confederacy formed, was the
precious blood of thousands spilt, and the hard-earned substance of
millions lavished, not that the people of America should enjoy peace,
liberty, and safety, but that the government of the individual States,
that particular municipal establishments, might enjoy a certain extent
of power, and be arrayed with certain dignities and attributes of
sovereignty? We have heard of the impious doctrine in the Old World,
that the people were made for kings, not kings for the people. Is the
same doctrine to be revived in the New, in another shape that the
solid happiness of the people is to be sacrificed to the views of
political institutions of a different form? It is too early for
politicians to presume on our forgetting that the public good, the
real welfare of the great body of the people, is the supreme object to
be pursued; and that no form of government whatever has any other
value than as it may be fitted for the attainment of this object. Were
the plan of the convention adverse to the public happiness, my voice
would be, Reject the plan. Were the Union itself inconsistent with the
public happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union. In like manner, as
far as the sovereignty of the States cannot be reconciled to the
happiness of the people, the voice of every good citizen must be,

Let the former be sacrificed to the latter. How far the sacrifice is
necessary, has been shown. How far the unsacrificed residue will be
endangered, is the question before us. Several important
considerations have been touched in the course of these papers, which
discountenance the supposition that the operation of the federal
government will by degrees prove fatal to the State governments. The
more I revolve the subject, the more fully I am persuaded that the
balance is much more likely to be disturbed by the preponderancy of
the last than of the first scale. We have seen, in all the examples of
ancient and modern confederacies, the strongest tendency continually
betraying itself in the members, to despoil the general government of
its authorities, with a very ineffectual capacity in the latter to
defend itself against the encroachments. Although, in most of these
examples, the system has been so dissimilar from that under
consideration as greatly to weaken any inference concerning the latter
from the fate of the former, yet, as the States will retain, under the
proposed Constitution, a very extensive portion of active sovereignty,
the inference ought not to be wholly disregarded. In the Achaean
league it is probable that the federal head had a degree and species
of power, which gave it a considerable likeness to the government
framed by the convention. The Lycian Confederacy, as far as its
principles and form are transmitted, must have borne a still greater
analogy to it. Yet history does not inform us that either of them ever
degenerated, or tended to degenerate, into one consolidated
government. On the contrary, we know that the ruin of one of them
proceeded from the incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the
dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the subordinate
authorities. These cases are the more worthy of our attention, as the
external causes by which the component parts were pressed together
were much more numerous and powerful than in our case; and
consequently less powerful ligaments within would be sufficient to
bind the members to the head, and to each other. In the feudal system,
we have seen a similar propensity exemplified. Notwithstanding the
want of proper sympathy in every instance between the local sovereigns
and the people, and the sympathy in some instances between the general
sovereign and the latter, it usually happened that the local
sovereigns prevailed in the rivalship for encroachments.

Had no external dangers enforced internal harmony and subordination,
and particularly, had the local sovereigns possessed the affections of
the people, the great kingdoms in Europe would at this time consist of
as many independent princes as there were formerly feudatory
barons. The State government will have the advantage of the Federal
government, whether we compare them in respect to the immediate
dependence of the one on the other; to the weight of personal
influence which each side will possess; to the powers respectively
vested in them; to the predilection and probable support of the
people; to the disposition and faculty of resisting and frustrating
the measures of each other. The State governments may be regarded as
constituent and essential parts of the federal government; whilst the
latter is nowise essential to the operation or organization of the
former. Without the intervention of the State legislatures, the
President of the United States cannot be elected at all. They must in
all cases have a great share in his appointment, and will, perhaps, in
most cases, of themselves determine it. The Senate will be elected
absolutely and exclusively by the State legislatures. Even the House
of Representatives, though drawn immediately from the people, will be
chosen very much under the influence of that class of men, whose
influence over the people obtains for themselves an election into the
State legislatures. Thus, each of the principal branches of the
federal government will owe its existence more or less to the favor of
the State governments, and must consequently feel a dependence, which
is much more likely to beget a disposition too obsequious than too
overbearing towards them. On the other side, the component parts of
the State governments will in no instance be indebted for their
appointment to the direct agency of the federal government, and very
little, if at all, to the local influence of its members. The number
of individuals employed under the Constitution of the United States
will be much smaller than the number employed under the particular
States.

There will consequently be less of personal influence on the side of
the former than of the latter. The members of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments of thirteen and more States, the
justices of peace, officers of militia, ministerial officers of
justice, with all the county, corporation, and town officers, for
three millions and more of people, intermixed, and having particular
acquaintance with every class and circle of people, must exceed,
beyond all proportion, both in number and influence, those of every
description who will be employed in the administration of the federal
system. Compare the members of the three great departments of the
thirteen States, excluding from the judiciary department the justices
of peace, with the members of the corresponding departments of the
single government of the Union; compare the militia officers of three
millions of people with the military and marine officers of any
establishment which is within the compass of probability, or, I may
add, of possibility, and in this view alone, we may pronounce the
advantage of the States to be decisive. If the federal government is
to have collectors of revenue, the State governments will have theirs
also. And as those of the former will be principally on the seacoast,
and not very numerous, whilst those of the latter will be spread over
the face of the country, and will be very numerous, the advantage in
this view also lies on the same side.

It is true, that the Confederacy is to possess, and may exercise, the
power of collecting internal as well as external taxes throughout the
States; but it is probable that this power will not be resorted to,
except for supplemental purposes of revenue; that an option will then
be given to the States to supply their quotas by previous collections
of their own; and that the eventual collection, under the immediate
authority of the Union, will generally be made by the officers, and
according to the rules, appointed by the several States. Indeed it is
extremely probable, that in other instances, particularly in the
organization of the judicial power, the officers of the States will be
clothed with the correspondent authority of the Union.

Should it happen, however, that separate collectors of internal
revenue should be appointed under the federal government, the
influence of the whole number would not bear a comparison with that of
the multitude of State officers in the opposite scale.

Within every district to which a federal collector would be allotted,
there would not be less than thirty or forty, or even more, officers
of different descriptions, and many of them persons of character and
weight, whose influence would lie on the side of the State. The powers
delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are
few and defined. Those which are to remain in the State governments
are numerous and indefinite. The former will be exercised principally
on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and foreign commerce;
with which last the power of taxation will, for the most part, be
connected. The powers reserved to the several States will extend to
all the objects which, in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the
lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal
order, improvement, and prosperity of the State. The operations of the
federal government will be most extensive and important in times of
war and danger; those of the State governments, in times of peace and
security. As the former periods will probably bear a small proportion
to the latter, the State governments will here enjoy another advantage
over the federal government. The more adequate, indeed, the federal
powers may be rendered to the national defense, the less frequent will
be those scenes of danger which might favor their ascendancy over the
governments of the particular States. If the new Constitution be
examined with accuracy and candor, it will be found that the change
which it proposes consists much less in the addition of NEW POWERS to
the Union, than in the invigoration of its ORIGINAL POWERS. The
regulation of commerce, it is true, is a new power; but that seems to
be an addition which few oppose, and from which no apprehensions are
entertained. The powers relating to war and peace, armies and fleets,
treaties and finance, with the other more considerable powers, are all
vested in the existing Congress by the articles of Confederation. The
proposed change does not enlarge these powers; it only substitutes a
more effectual mode of administering them. The change relating to
taxation may be regarded as the most important; and yet the present
Congress have as complete authority to REQUIRE of the States
indefinite supplies of money for the common defense and general
welfare, as the future Congress will have to require them of
individual citizens; and the latter will be no more bound than the
States themselves have been, to pay the quotas respectively taxed on
them. Had the States complied punctually with the articles of
Confederation, or could their compliance have been enforced by as
peaceable means as may be used with success towards single persons,
our past experience is very far from countenancing an opinion, that
the State governments would have lost their constitutional powers, and
have gradually undergone an entire consolidation. To maintain that
such an event would have ensued, would be to say at once, that the
existence of the State governments is incompatible with any system
whatever that accomplishes the essential purposes of the Union.
RESUMING the subject of the last paper, I proceed to inquire whether
the federal government or the State governments will have the
advantage with regard to the predilection and support of the
people. Notwithstanding the different modes in which they are
appointed, we must consider both of them as substantially dependent on
the great body of the citizens of the United States.

I assume this position here as it respects the first, reserving the
proofs for another place. The federal and State governments are in
fact but different agents and trustees of the people, constituted with
different powers, and designed for different purposes. The adversaries
of the Constitution seem to have lost sight of the people altogether
in their reasonings on this subject; and to have viewed these
different establishments, not only as mutual rivals and enemies, but
as uncontrolled by any common superior in their efforts to usurp the
authorities of each other. These gentlemen must here be reminded of
their error. They must be told that the ultimate authority, wherever
the derivative may be found, resides in the people alone, and that it
will not depend merely on the comparative ambition or address of the
different governments, whether either, or which of them, will be able
to enlarge its sphere of jurisdiction at the expense of the
other. Truth, no less than decency, requires that the event in every
case should be supposed to depend on the sentiments and sanction of
their common constituents. Many considerations, besides those
suggested on a former occasion, seem to place it beyond doubt that the
first and most natural attachment of the people will be to the
governments of their respective States.

Into the administration of these a greater number of individuals will
expect to rise. From the gift of these a greater number of offices and
emoluments will flow. By the superintending care of these, all the
more domestic and personal interests of the people will be regulated
and provided for. With the affairs of these, the people will be more
familiarly and minutely conversant. And with the members of these,
will a greater proportion of the people have the ties of personal
acquaintance and friendship, and of family and party attachments; on
the side of these, therefore, the popular bias may well be expected
most strongly to incline. Experience speaks the same language in this
case. The federal administration, though hitherto very defective in
comparison with what may be hoped under a better system, had, during
the war, and particularly whilst the independent fund of paper
emissions was in credit, an activity and importance as great as it can
well have in any future circumstances whatever.

It was engaged, too, in a course of measures which had for their
object the protection of everything that was dear, and the acquisition
of everything that could be desirable to the people at large. It was,
nevertheless, invariably found, after the transient enthusiasm for the
early Congresses was over, that the attention and attachment of the
people were turned anew to their own particular governments; that the
federal council was at no time the idol of popular favor; and that
opposition to proposed enlargements of its powers and importance was
the side usually taken by the men who wished to build their political
consequence on the prepossessions of their fellow-citizens. If,
therefore, as has been elsewhere remarked, the people should in future
become more partial to the federal than to the State governments, the
change can only result from such manifest and irresistible proofs of a
better administration, as will overcome all their antecedent
propensities. And in that case, the people ought not surely to be
precluded from giving most of their confidence where they may discover
it to be most due; but even in that case the State governments could
have little to apprehend, because it is only within a certain sphere
that the federal power can, in the nature of things, be advantageously
administered. The remaining points on which I propose to compare the
federal and State governments, are the disposition and the faculty
they may respectively possess, to resist and frustrate the measures of
each other. It has been already proved that the members of the federal
will be more dependent on the members of the State governments, than
the latter will be on the former. It has appeared also, that the
prepossessions of the people, on whom both will depend, will be more
on the side of the State governments, than of the federal
government. So far as the disposition of each towards the other may be
influenced by these causes, the State governments must clearly have
the advantage.

But in a distinct and very important point of view, the advantage will
lie on the same side. The prepossessions, which the members themselves
will carry into the federal government, will generally be favorable to
the States; whilst it will rarely happen, that the members of the
State governments will carry into the public councils a bias in favor
of the general government. A local spirit will infallibly prevail much
more in the members of Congress, than a national spirit will prevail
in the legislatures of the particular States. Every one knows that a
great proportion of the errors committed by the State legislatures
proceeds from the disposition of the members to sacrifice the
comprehensive and permanent interest of the State, to the particular
and separate views of the counties or districts in which they
reside. And if they do not sufficiently enlarge their policy to
embrace the collective welfare of their particular State, how can it
be imagined that they will make the aggregate prosperity of the Union,
and the dignity and respectability of its government, the objects of
their affections and consultations? For the same reason that the
members of the State legislatures will be unlikely to attach
themselves sufficiently to national objects, the members of the
federal legislature will be likely to attach themselves too much to
local objects. The States will be to the latter what counties and
towns are to the former. Measures will too often be decided according
to their probable effect, not on the national prosperity and
happiness, but on the prejudices, interests, and pursuits of the
governments and people of the individual States. What is the spirit
that has in general characterized the proceedings of Congress? A
perusal of their journals, as well as the candid acknowledgments of
such as have had a seat in that assembly, will inform us, that the
members have but too frequently displayed the character, rather of
partisans of their respective States, than of impartial guardians of a
common interest; that where on one occasion improper sacrifices have
been made of local considerations, to the aggrandizement of the
federal government, the great interests of the nation have suffered on
a hundred, from an undue attention to the local prejudices, interests,
and views of the particular States. I mean not by these reflections to
insinuate, that the new federal government will not embrace a more
enlarged plan of policy than the existing government may have pursued;
much less, that its views will be as confined as those of the State
legislatures; but only that it will partake sufficiently of the spirit
of both, to be disinclined to invade the rights of the individual
States, or the preorgatives of their governments. The motives on the
part of the State governments, to augment their prerogatives by
defalcations from the federal government, will be overruled by no
reciprocal predispositions in the members. Were it admitted, however,
that the Federal government may feel an equal disposition with the
State governments to extend its power beyond the due limits, the
latter would still have the advantage in the means of defeating such
encroachments. If an act of a particular State, though unfriendly to
the national government, be generally popular in that State and should
not too grossly violate the oaths of the State officers, it is
executed immediately and, of course, by means on the spot and
depending on the State alone. The opposition of the federal
government, or the interposition of federal officers, would but
inflame the zeal of all parties on the side of the State, and the evil
could not be prevented or repaired, if at all, without the employment
of means which must always be resorted to with reluctance and
difficulty.

On the other hand, should an unwarrantable measure of the federal
government be unpopular in particular States, which would seldom fail
to be the case, or even a warrantable measure be so, which may
sometimes be the case, the means of opposition to it are powerful and
at hand. The disquietude of the people; their repugnance and, perhaps,
refusal to co-operate with the officers of the Union; the frowns of
the executive magistracy of the State; the embarrassments created by
legislative devices, which would often be added on such occasions,
would oppose, in any State, difficulties not to be despised; would
form, in a large State, very serious impediments; and where the
sentiments of several adjoining States happened to be in unison, would
present obstructions which the federal government would hardly be
willing to encounter. But ambitious encroachments of the federal
government, on the authority of the State governments, would not
excite the opposition of a single State, or of a few States only. They
would be signals of general alarm. Every government would espouse the
common cause. A correspondence would be opened. Plans of resistance
would be concerted. One spirit would animate and conduct the
whole. The same combinations, in short, would result from an
apprehension of the federal, as was produced by the dread of a
foreign, yoke; and unless the projected innovations should be
voluntarily renounced, the same appeal to a trial of force would be
made in the one case as was made in the other. But what degree of
madness could ever drive the federal government to such an
extremity. In the contest with Great Britain, one part of the empire
was employed against the other.

The more numerous part invaded the rights of the less numerous
part. The attempt was unjust and unwise; but it was not in speculation
absolutely chimerical. But what would be the contest in the case we
are supposing? Who would be the parties? A few representatives of the
people would be opposed to the people themselves; or rather one set of
representatives would be contending against thirteen sets of
representatives, with the whole body of their common constituents on
the side of the latter. The only refuge left for those who prophesy
the downfall of the State governments is the visionary supposition
that the federal government may previously accumulate a military force
for the projects of ambition. The reasonings contained in these papers
must have been employed to little purpose indeed, if it could be
necessary now to disprove the reality of this danger. That the people
and the States should, for a sufficient period of time, elect an
uninterupted succession of men ready to betray both; that the traitors
should, throughout this period, uniformly and systematically pursue
some fixed plan for the extension of the military establishment; that
the governments and the people of the States should silently and
patiently behold the gathering storm, and continue to supply the
materials, until it should be prepared to burst on their own heads,
must appear to every one more like the incoherent dreams of a
delirious jealousy, or the misjudged exaggerations of a counterfeit
zeal, than like the sober apprehensions of genuine patriotism.

Extravagant as the supposition is, let it however be made. Let a
regular army, fully equal to the resources of the country, be formed;
and let it be entirely at the devotion of the federal government;
still it would not be going too far to say, that the State
governments, with the people on their side, would be able to repel the
danger. The highest number to which, according to the best
computation, a standing army can be carried in any country, does not
exceed one hundredth part of the whole number of souls; or one
twenty-fifth part of the number able to bear arms. This proportion
would not yield, in the United States, an army of more than
twenty-five or thirty thousand men. To these would be opposed a
militia amounting to near half a million of citizens with arms in
their hands, officered by men chosen from among themselves, fighting
for their common liberties, and united and conducted by governments
possessing their affections and confidence. It may well be doubted,
whether a militia thus circumstanced could ever be conquered by such a
proportion of regular troops. Those who are best acquainted with the
last successful resistance of this country against the British arms,
will be most inclined to deny the possibility of it. Besides the
advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over the people
of almost every other nation, the existence of subordinate
governments, to which the people are attached, and by which the
militia officers are appointed, forms a barrier against the
enterprises of ambition, more insurmountable than any which a simple
government of any form can admit of. Notwithstanding the military
establishments in the several kingdoms of Europe, which are carried as
far as the public resources will bear, the governments are afraid to
trust the people with arms. And it is not certain, that with this aid
alone they would not be able to shake off their yokes. But were the
people to possess the additional advantages of local governments
chosen by themselves, who could collect the national will and direct
the national force, and of officers appointed out of the militia, by
these governments, and attached both to them and to the militia, it
may be affirmed with the greatest assurance, that the throne of every
tyranny in Europe would be speedily overturned in spite of the legions
which surround it. Let us not insult the free and gallant citizens of
America with the suspicion, that they would be less able to defend the
rights of which they would be in actual possession, than the debased
subjects of arbitrary power would be to rescue theirs from the hands
of their oppressors. Let us rather no longer insult them with the
supposition that they can ever reduce themselves to the necessity of
making the experiment, by a blind and tame submission to the long
train of insidious measures which must precede and produce it. The
argument under the present head may be put into a very concise form,
which appears altogether conclusive. Either the mode in which the
federal government is to be constructed will render it sufficiently
dependent on the people, or it will not. On the first supposition, it
will be restrained by that dependence from forming schemes obnoxious
to their constituents. On the other supposition, it will not possess
the confidence of the people, and its schemes of usurpation will be
easily defeated by the State governments, who will be supported by the
people. On summing up the considerations stated in this and the last
paper, they seem to amount to the most convincing evidence, that the
powers proposed to be lodged in the federal government are as little
formidable to those reserved to the individual States, as they are
indispensably necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Union; and
that all those alarms which have been sounded, of a meditated and
consequential annihilation of the State governments, must, on the most
favorable interpretation, be ascribed to the chimerical fears of the
authors of them.
HAVING reviewed the general form of the proposed government and the
general mass of power allotted to it, I proceed to examine the
particular structure of this government, and the distribution of this
mass of power among its constituent parts. One of the principal
objections inculcated by the more respectable adversaries to the
Constitution, is its supposed violation of the political maxim, that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments ought to be
separate and distinct. In the structure of the federal government, no
regard, it is said, seems to have been paid to this essential
precaution in favor of liberty. The several departments of power are
distributed and blended in such a manner as at once to destroy all
symmetry and beauty of form, and to expose some of the essential parts
of the edifice to the danger of being crushed by the disproportionate
weight of other parts. No political truth is certainly of greater
intrinsic value, or is stamped with the authority of more enlightened
patrons of liberty, than that on which the objection is founded.

The accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary,
in the same hands, whether of one, a few, or many, and whether
hereditary, selfappointed, or elective, may justly be pronounced the
very definition of tyranny. Were the federal Constitution, therefore,
really chargeable with the accumulation of power, or with a mixture of
powers, having a dangerous tendency to such an accumulation, no
further arguments would be necessary to inspire a universal
reprobation of the system. I persuade myself, however, that it will be
made apparent to every one, that the charge cannot be supported, and
that the maxim on which it relies has been totally misconceived and
misapplied. In order to form correct ideas on this important subject,
it will be proper to investigate the sense in which the preservation
of liberty requires that the three great departments of power should
be separate and distinct. The oracle who is always consulted and cited
on this subject is the celebrated Montesquieu. If he be not the author
of this invaluable precept in the science of politics, he has the
merit at least of displaying and recommending it most effectually to
the attention of mankind. Let us endeavor, in the first place, to
ascertain his meaning on this point. The British Constitution was to
Montesquieu what Homer has been to the didactic writers on epic
poetry. As the latter have considered the work of the immortal bard as
the perfect model from which the principles and rules of the epic art
were to be drawn, and by which all similar works were to be judged, so
this great political critic appears to have viewed the Constitution of
England as the standard, or to use his own expression, as the mirror
of political liberty; and to have delivered, in the form of elementary
truths, the several characteristic principles of that particular
system. That we may be sure, then, not to mistake his meaning in this
case, let us recur to the source from which the maxim was drawn. On
the slightest view of the British Constitution, we must perceive that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are by no means
totally separate and distinct from each other. The executive
magistrate forms an integral part of the legislative authority. He
alone has the prerogative of making treaties with foreign sovereigns,
which, when made, have, under certain limitations, the force of
legislative acts. All the members of the judiciary department are
appointed by him, can be removed by him on the address of the two
Houses of Parliament, and form, when he pleases to consult them, one
of his constitutional councils. One branch of the legislative
department forms also a great constitutional council to the executive
chief, as, on another hand, it is the sole depositary of judicial
power in cases of impeachment, and is invested with the supreme
appellate jurisdiction in all other cases. The judges, again, are so
far connected with the legislative department as often to attend and
participate in its deliberations, though not admitted to a legislative
vote. From these facts, by which Montesquieu was guided, it may
clearly be inferred that, in saying "There can be no liberty where the
legislative and executive powers are united in the same person, or
body of magistrates," or, "if the power of judging be not separated
from the legislative and executive powers," he did not mean that these
departments ought to have no PARTIAL AGENCY in, or no CONTROL over,
the acts of each other. His meaning, as his own words import, and
still more conclusively as illustrated by the example in his eye, can
amount to no more than this, that where the WHOLE power of one
department is exercised by the same hands which possess the WHOLE
power of another department, the fundamental principles of a free
constitution are subverted. This would have been the case in the
constitution examined by him, if the king, who is the sole executive
magistrate, had possessed also the complete legislative power, or the
supreme administration of justice; or if the entire legislative body
had possessed the supreme judiciary, or the supreme executive
authority. This, however, is not among the vices of that
constitution. The magistrate in whom the whole executive power resides
cannot of himself make a law, though he can put a negative on every
law; nor administer justice in person, though he has the appointment
of those who do administer it. The judges can exercise no executive
prerogative, though they are shoots from the executive stock; nor any
legislative function, though they may be advised with by the
legislative councils. The entire legislature can perform no judiciary
act, though by the joint act of two of its branches the judges may be
removed from their offices, and though one of its branches is
possessed of the judicial power in the last resort. The entire
legislature, again, can exercise no executive prerogative, though one
of its branches constitutes the supreme executive magistracy, and
another, on the impeachment of a third, can try and condemn all the
subordinate officers in the executive department. The reasons on which
Montesquieu grounds his maxim are a further demonstration of his
meaning. "When the legislative and executive powers are united in the
same person or body," says he, "there can be no liberty, because
apprehensions may arise lest THE SAME monarch or senate should ENACT
tyrannical laws to EXECUTE them in a tyrannical manner. " Again: "Were
the power of judging joined with the legislative, the life and liberty
of the subject would be exposed to arbitrary control, for THE JUDGE
would then be THE LEGISLATOR.

Were it joined to the executive power, THE JUDGE might behave with all
the violence of AN OPPRESSOR. " Some of these reasons are more fully
explained in other passages; but briefly stated as they are here, they
sufficiently establish the meaning which we have put on this
celebrated maxim of this celebrated author.

If we look into the constitutions of the several States, we find that,
notwithstanding the emphatical and, in some instances, the unqualified
terms in which this axiom has been laid down, there is not a single
instance in which the several departments of power have been kept
absolutely separate and distinct. New Hampshire, whose constitution
was the last formed, seems to have been fully aware of the
impossibility and inexpediency of avoiding any mixture whatever of
these departments, and has qualified the doctrine by declaring "that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary powers ought to be kept as
separate from, and independent of, each other AS THE NATURE OF A FREE
GOVERNMENT WILL ADMIT; OR AS IS CONSISTENT WITH THAT CHAIN OF
CONNECTION THAT BINDS THE WHOLE FABRIC OF THE CONSTITUTION IN ONE
INDISSOLUBLE BOND OF UNITY AND AMITY. " Her constitution accordingly
mixes these departments in several respects. The Senate, which is a
branch of the legislative department, is also a judicial tribunal for
the trial of impeachments. The President, who is the head of the
executive department, is the presiding member also of the Senate; and,
besides an equal vote in all cases, has a casting vote in case of a
tie. The executive head is himself eventually elective every year by
the legislative department, and his council is every year chosen by
and from the members of the same department. Several of the officers
of state are also appointed by the legislature. And the members of the
judiciary department are appointed by the executive department. The
constitution of Massachusetts has observed a sufficient though less
pointed caution, in expressing this fundamental article of liberty. It
declares "that the legislative department shall never exercise the
executive and judicial powers, or either of them; the executive shall
never exercise the legislative and judicial powers, or either of them;
the judicial shall never exercise the legislative and executive
powers, or either of them. " This declaration corresponds precisely
with the doctrine of Montesquieu, as it has been explained, and is not
in a single point violated by the plan of the convention. It goes no
farther than to prohibit any one of the entire departments from
exercising the powers of another department. In the very Constitution
to which it is prefixed, a partial mixture of powers has been
admitted. The executive magistrate has a qualified negative on the
legislative body, and the Senate, which is a part of the legislature,
is a court of impeachment for members both of the executive and
judiciary departments. The members of the judiciary department, again,
are appointable by the executive department, and removable by the same
authority on the address of the two legislative branches.

Lastly, a number of the officers of government are annually appointed
by the legislative department. As the appointment to offices,
particularly executive offices, is in its nature an executive
function, the compilers of the Constitution have, in this last point
at least, violated the rule established by themselves. I pass over the
constitutions of Rhode Island and Connecticut, because they were
formed prior to the Revolution, and even before the principle under
examination had become an object of political attention. The
constitution of New York contains no declaration on this subject; but
appears very clearly to have been framed with an eye to the danger of
improperly blending the different departments. It gives, nevertheless,
to the executive magistrate, a partial control over the legislative
department; and, what is more, gives a like control to the judiciary
department; and even blends the executive and judiciary departments in
the exercise of this control. In its council of appointment members of
the legislative are associated with the executive authority, in the
appointment of officers, both executive and judiciary. And its court
for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors is to consist
of one branch of the legislature and the principal members of the
judiciary department. The constitution of New Jersey has blended the
different powers of government more than any of the preceding. The
governor, who is the executive magistrate, is appointed by the
legislature; is chancellor and ordinary, or surrogate of the State; is
a member of the Supreme Court of Appeals, and president, with a
casting vote, of one of the legislative branches. The same legislative
branch acts again as executive council of the governor, and with him
constitutes the Court of Appeals. The members of the judiciary
department are appointed by the legislative department and removable
by one branch of it, on the impeachment of the other. According to the
constitution of Pennsylvania, the president, who is the head of the
executive department, is annually elected by a vote in which the
legislative department predominates. In conjunction with an executive
council, he appoints the members of the judiciary department, and
forms a court of impeachment for trial of all officers, judiciary as
well as executive. The judges of the Supreme Court and justices of the
peace seem also to be removable by the legislature; and the executive
power of pardoning in certain cases, to be referred to the same
department. The members of the executive counoil are made EX-OFFICIO
justices of peace throughout the State. In Delaware, the chief
executive magistrate is annually elected by the legislative
department. The speakers of the two legislative branches are
vice-presidents in the executive department. The executive chief, with
six others, appointed, three by each of the legislative branches
constitutes the Supreme Court of Appeals; he is joined with the
legislative department in the appointment of the other
judges. Throughout the States, it appears that the members of the
legislature may at the same time be justices of the peace; in this
State, the members of one branch of it are EX-OFFICIO justices of the
peace; as are also the members of the executive council. The principal
officers of the executive department are appointed by the legislative;
and one branch of the latter forms a court of impeachments. All
officers may be removed on address of the legislature. Maryland has
adopted the maxim in the most unqualified terms; declaring that the
legislative, executive, and judicial powers of government ought to be
forever separate and distinct from each other. Her constitution,
notwithstanding, makes the executive magistrate appointable by the
legislative department; and the members of the judiciary by the
executive department. The language of Virginia is still more pointed
on this subject. Her constitution declares, "that the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate and distinct;
so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging to the other;
nor shall any person exercise the powers of more than one of them at
the same time, except that the justices of county courts shall be
eligible to either House of Assembly. " Yet we find not only this
express exception, with respect to the members of the irferior courts,
but that the chief magistrate, with his executive council, are
appointable by the legislature; that two members of the latter are
triennially displaced at the pleasure of the legislature; and that all
the principal offices, both executive and judiciary, are filled by the
same department. The executive prerogative of pardon, also, is in one
case vested in the legislative department. The constitution of North
Carolina, which declares "that the legislative, executive, and supreme
judicial powers of government ought to be forever separate and
distinct from each other," refers, at the same time, to the
legislative department, the appointment not only of the executive
chief, but all the principal officers within both that and the
judiciary department. In South Carolina, the constitution makes the
executive magistracy eligible by the legislative department.

It gives to the latter, also, the appointment of the members of the
judiciary department, including even justices of the peace and
sheriffs; and the appointment of officers in the executive department,
down to captains in the army and navy of the State.

In the constitution of Georgia, where it is declared "that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate
and distinct, so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging
to the other," we find that the executive department is to be filled
by appointments of the legislature; and the executive prerogative of
pardon to be finally exercised by the same authority. Even justices of
the peace are to be appointed by the legislature. In citing these
cases, in which the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
have not been kept totally separate and distinct, I wish not to be
regarded as an advocate for the particular organizations of the
several State governments. I am fully aware that among the many
excellent principles which they exemplify, they carry strong marks of
the haste, and still stronger of the inexperience, under which they
were framed. It is but too obvious that in some instances the
fundamental principle under consideration has been violated by too
great a mixture, and even an actual consolidation, of the different
powers; and that in no instance has a competent provision been made
for maintaining in practice the separation delineated on paper. What I
have wished to evince is, that the charge brought against the proposed
Constitution, of violating the sacred maxim of free government, is
warranted neither by the real meaning annexed to that maxim by its
author, nor by the sense in which it has hitherto been understood in
America. This interesting subject will be resumed in the ensuing
paper.
IT WAS shown in the last paper that the political apothegm there
examined does not require that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments should be wholly unconnected with each other. I
shall undertake, in the next place, to show that unless these
departments be so far connected and blended as to give to each a
constitutional control over the others, the degree of separation which
the maxim requires, as essential to a free government, can never in
practice be duly maintained. It is agreed on all sides, that the
powers properly belonging to one of the departments ought not to be
directly and completely administered by either of the other
departments. It is equally evident, that none of them ought to
possess, directly or indirectly, an overruling influence over the
others, in the administration of their respective powers. It will not
be denied, that power is of an encroaching nature, and that it ought
to be effectually restrained from passing the limits assigned to it.

After discriminating, therefore, in theory, the several classes of
power, as they may in their nature be legislative, executive, or
judiciary, the next and most difficult task is to provide some
practical security for each, against the invasion of the others.

What this security ought to be, is the great problem to be
solved. Will it be sufficient to mark, with precision, the boundaries
of these departments, in the constitution of the government, and to
trust to these parchment barriers against the encroaching spirit of
power? This is the security which appears to have been principally
relied on by the compilers of most of the American constitutions. But
experience assures us, that the efficacy of the provision has been
greatly overrated; and that some more adequate defense is
indispensably necessary for the more feeble, against the more
powerful, members of the government. The legislative department is
everywhere extending the sphere of its activity, and drawing all power
into its impetuous vortex. The founders of our republics have so much
merit for the wisdom which they have displayed, that no task can be
less pleasing than that of pointing out the errors into which they
have fallen. A respect for truth, however, obliges us to remark, that
they seem never for a moment to have turned their eyes from the danger
to liberty from the overgrown and all-grasping prerogative of an
hereditary magistrate, supported and fortified by an hereditary branch
of the legislative authority. They seem never to have recollected the
danger from legislative usurpations, which, by assembling all power in
the same hands, must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by
executive usurpations. In a government where numerous and extensive
prerogatives are placed in the hands of an hereditary monarch, the
executive department is very justly regarded as the source of danger,
and watched with all the jealousy which a zeal for liberty ought to
inspire. In a democracy, where a multitude of people exercise in
person the legislative functions, and are continually exposed, by
their incapacity for regular deliberation and concerted measures, to
the ambitious intrigues of their executive magistrates, tyranny may
well be apprehended, on some favorable emergency, to start up in the
same quarter. But in a representative republic, where the executive
magistracy is carefully limited; both in the extent and the duration
of its power; and where the legislative power is exercised by an
assembly, which is inspired, by a supposed influence over the people,
with an intrepid confidence in its own strength; which is sufficiently
numerous to feel all the passions which actuate a multitude, yet not
so numerous as to be incapable of pursuing the objects of its
passions, by means which reason prescribes; it is against the
enterprising ambition of this department that the people ought to
indulge all their jealousy and exhaust all their precautions. The
legislative department derives a superiority in our governments from
other circumstances. Its constitutional powers being at once more
extensive, and less susceptible of precise limits, it can, with the
greater facility, mask, under complicated and indirect measures, the
encroachments which it makes on the co-ordinate departments. It is not
unfrequently a question of real nicety in legislative bodies, whether
the operation of a particular measure will, or will not, extend beyond
the legislative sphere. On the other side, the executive power being
restrained within a narrower compass, and being more simple in its
nature, and the judiciary being described by landmarks still less
uncertain, projects of usurpation by either of these departments would
immediately betray and defeat themselves. Nor is this all: as the
legislative department alone has access to the pockets of the people,
and has in some constitutions full discretion, and in all a prevailing
influence, over the pecuniary rewards of those who fill the other
departments, a dependence is thus created in the latter, which gives
still greater facility to encroachments of the former. I have appealed
to our own experience for the truth of what I advance on this
subject. Were it necessary to verify this experience by particular
proofs, they might be multiplied without end. I might find a witness
in every citizen who has shared in, or been attentive to, the course
of public administrations. I might collect vouchers in abundance from
the records and archives of every State in the Union. But as a more
concise, and at the same time equally satisfactory, evidence, I will
refer to the example of two States, attested by two unexceptionable
authorities. The first example is that of Virginia, a State which, as
we have seen, has expressly declared in its constitution, that the
three great departments ought not to be intermixed. The authority in
support of it is Mr. Jefferson, who, besides his other advantages for
remarking the operation of the government, was himself the chief
magistrate of it. In order to convey fully the ideas with which his
experience had impressed him on this subject, it will be necessary to
quote a passage of some length from his very interesting "Notes on the
State of Virginia," p. 195. "All the powers of government,
legislative, executive, and judiciary, result to the legislative
body. The concentrating these in the same hands, is precisely the
definition of despotic government. It will be no alleviation, that
these powers will be exercised by a plurality of hands, and not by a
single one. One hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as
oppressive as one. Let those who doubt it, turn their eyes on the
republic of Venice. As little will it avail us, that they are chosen
by ourselves. An ELECTIVE DESPOTISM was not the government we fought
for; but one which should not only be founded on free principles, but
in which the powers of government should be so divided and balanced
among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one could transcend
their legal limits, without being effectually checked and restrained
by the others.

For this reason, that convention which passed the ordinance of
government, laid its foundation on this basis, that the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments should be separate and distinct,
so that no person should exercise the powers of more than one of them
at the same time. BUT NO BARRIER WAS PROVIDED BETWEEN THESE SEVERAL
POWERS. The judiciary and the executive members were left dependent on
the legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it. If, therefore, the legislature assumes
executive and judiciary powers, no opposition is likely to be made;
nor, if made, can be effectual; because in that case they may put
their proceedings into the form of acts of Assembly, which will render
them obligatory on the other branches. They have accordingly, IN MANY
instances, DECIDED RIGHTS which should have been left to JUDICIARY
CONTROVERSY, and THE DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE, DURING THE WHOLE TIME
OF THEIR SESSION, IS BECOMING HABITUAL AND FAMILIAR. "The other State
which I shall take for an example is Pennsylvania; and the other
authority, the Council of Censors, which assembled in the years 1783
and 1784. A part of the duty of this body, as marked out by the
constitution, was "to inquire whether the constitution had been
preserved inviolate in every part; and whether the legislative and
executive branches of government had performed their duty as guardians
of the people, or assumed to themselves, or exercised, other or
greater powers than they are entitled to by the constitution. " In the
execution of this trust, the council were necessarily led to a
comparison of both the legislative and executive proceedings, with the
constitutional powers of these departments; and from the facts
enumerated, and to the truth of most of which both sides in the
council subscribed, it appears that the constitution had been
flagrantly violated by the legislature in a variety of important
instances. A great number of laws had been passed, violating, without
any apparent necessity, the rule requiring that all bills of a public
nature shall be previously printed for the consideration of the
people; although this is one of the precautions chiefly relied on by
the constitution against improper acts of legislature. The
constitutional trial by jury had been violated, and powers assumed
which had not been delegated by the constitution.

Executive powers had been usurped. The salaries of the judges, which
the constitution expressly requires to be fixed, had been occasionally
varied; and cases belonging to the judiciary department frequently
drawn within legislative cognizance and determination. Those who wish
to see the several particulars falling under each of these heads, may
consult the journals of the council, which are in print. Some of them,
it will be found, may be imputable to peculiar circumstances connected
with the war; but the greater part of them may be considered as the
spontaneous shoots of an ill-constituted government. It appears, also,
that the executive department had not been innocent of frequent
breaches of the constitution. There are three observations, however,
which ought to be made on this head: FIRST, a great proportion of the
instances were either immediately produced by the necessities of the
war, or recommended by Congress or the commander-in-chief; SECONDLY,
in most of the other instances, they conformed either to the declared
or the known sentiments of the legislative department; THIRDLY, the
executive department of Pennsylvania is distinguished from that of the
other States by the number of members composing it. In this respect,
it has as much affinity to a legislative assembly as to an executive
council. And being at once exempt from the restraint of an individual
responsibility for the acts of the body, and deriving confidence from
mutual example and joint influence, unauthorized measures would, of
course, be more freely hazarded, than where the executive department
is administered by a single hand, or by a few hands.

The conclusion which I am warranted in drawing from these observations
is, that a mere demarcation on parchment of the constitutional limits
of the several departments, is not a sufficient guard against those
encroachments which lead to a tyrannical concentration of all the
powers of government in the same hands.
THE remaining charge against the House of Representatives, which I am
to examine, is grounded on a supposition that the number of members
will not be augmented from time to time, as the progress of population
may demand. It has been admitted, that this objection, if well
supported, would have great weight. The following observations will
show that, like most other objections against the Constitution, it can
only proceed from a partial view of the subject, or from a jealousy
which discolors and disfigures every object which is beheld. 1. Those
who urge the objection seem not to have recollected that the federal
Constitution will not suffer by a comparison with the State
constitutions, in the security provided for a gradual augmentation of
the number of representatives. The number which is to prevail in the
first instance is declared to be temporary. Its duration is limited to
the short term of three years. Within every successive term of ten
years a census of inhabitants is to be repeated. The unequivocal
objects of these regulations are, first, to readjust, from time to
time, the apportionment of representatives to the number of
inhabitants, under the single exception that each State shall have one
representative at least; secondly, to augment the number of
representatives at the same periods, under the sole limitation that
the whole number shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand
inhabitants. If we review the constitutions of the several States, we
shall find that some of them contain no determinate regulations on
this subject, that others correspond pretty much on this point with
the federal Constitution, and that the most effectual security in any
of them is resolvable into a mere directory provision. 2. As far as
experience has taken place on this subject, a gradual increase of
representatives under the State constitutions has at least kept pace
with that of the constituents, and it appears that the former have
been as ready to concur in such measures as the latter have been to
call for them. 3. There is a peculiarity in the federal Constitution
which insures a watchful attention in a majority both of the people
and of their representatives to a constitutional augmentation of the
latter. The peculiarity lies in this, that one branch of the
legislature is a representation of citizens, the other of the States:
in the former, consequently, the larger States will have most weight;
in the latter, the advantage will be in favor of the smaller
States. From this circumstance it may with certainty be inferred that
the larger States will be strenuous advocates for increasing the
number and weight of that part of the legislature in which their
influence predominates. And it so happens that four only of the
largest will have a majority of the whole votes in the House of
Representatives. Should the representatives or people, therefore, of
the smaller States oppose at any time a reasonable addition of
members, a coalition of a very few States will be sufficient to
overrule the opposition; a coalition which, notwithstanding the
rivalship and local prejudices which might prevent it on ordinary
occasions, would not fail to take place, when not merely prompted by
common interest, but justified by equity and the principles of the
Constitution. It may be alleged, perhaps, that the Senate would be
prompted by like motives to an adverse coalition; and as their
concurrence would be indispensable, the just and constitutional views
of the other branch might be defeated. This is the difficulty which
has probably created the most serious apprehensions in the jealous
friends of a numerous representation. Fortunately it is among the
difficulties which, existing only in appearance, vanish on a close and
accurate inspection. The following reflections will, if I mistake not,
be admitted to be conclusive and satisfactory on this
point. Notwithstanding the equal authority which will subsist between
the two houses on all legislative subjects, except the originating of
money bills, it cannot be doubted that the House, composed of the
greater number of members, when supported by the more powerful States,
and speaking the known and determined sense of a majority of the
people, will have no small advantage in a question depending on the
comparative firmness of the two houses. This advantage must be
increased by the consciousness, felt by the same side of being
supported in its demands by right, by reason, and by the Constitution;
and the consciousness, on the opposite side, of contending against the
force of all these solemn considerations. It is farther to be
considered, that in the gradation between the smallest and largest
States, there are several, which, though most likely in general to
arrange themselves among the former are too little removed in extent
and population from the latter, to second an opposition to their just
and legitimate pretensions. Hence it is by no means certain that a
majority of votes, even in the Senate, would be unfriendly to proper
augmentations in the number of representatives. It will not be looking
too far to add, that the senators from all the new States may be
gained over to the just views of the House of Representatives, by an
expedient too obvious to be overlooked. As these States will, for a
great length of time, advance in population with peculiar rapidity,
they will be interested in frequent reapportionments of the
representatives to the number of inhabitants. The large States,
therefore, who will prevail in the House of Representatives, will have
nothing to do but to make reapportionments and augmentations mutually
conditions of each other; and the senators from all the most growing
States will be bound to contend for the latter, by the interest which
their States will feel in the former. These considerations seem to
afford ample security on this subject, and ought alone to satisfy all
the doubts and fears which have been indulged with regard to
it. Admitting, however, that they should all be insufficient to subdue
the unjust policy of the smaller States, or their predominant
influence in the councils of the Senate, a constitutional and
infallible resource still remains with the larger States, by which
they will be able at all times to accomplish their just purposes. The
House of Representatives cannot only refuse, but they alone can
propose, the supplies requisite for the support of government. They,
in a word, hold the purse that powerful instrument by which we behold,
in the history of the British Constitution, an infant and humble
representation of the people gradually enlarging the sphere of its
activity and importance, and finally reducing, as far as it seems to
have wished, all the overgrown prerogatives of the other branches of
the government. This power over the purse may, in fact, be regarded as
the most complete and effectual weapon with which any constitution can
arm the immediate representatives of the people, for obtaining a
redress of every grievance, and for carrying into effect every just
and salutary measure. But will not the House of Representatives be as
much interested as the Senate in maintaining the government in its
proper functions, and will they not therefore be unwilling to stake
its existence or its reputation on the pliancy of the Senate? Or, if
such a trial of firmness between the two branches were hazarded, would
not the one be as likely first to yield as the other? These questions
will create no difficulty with those who reflect that in all cases the
smaller the number, and the more permanent and conspicuous the
station, of men in power, the stronger must be the interest which they
will individually feel in whatever concerns the government. Those who
represent the dignity of their country in the eyes of other nations,
will be particularly sensible to every prospect of public danger, or
of dishonorable stagnation in public affairs. To those causes we are
to ascribe the continual triumph of the British House of Commons over
the other branches of the government, whenever the engine of a money
bill has been employed. An absolute inflexibility on the side of the
latter, although it could not have failed to involve every department
of the state in the general confusion, has neither been apprehended
nor experienced. The utmost degree of firmness that can be displayed
by the federal Senate or President, will not be more than equal to a
resistance in which they will be supported by constitutional and
patriotic principles. In this review of the Constitution of the House
of Representatives, I have passed over the circumstances of economy,
which, in the present state of affairs, might have had some effect in
lessening the temporary number of representatives, and a disregard of
which would probably have been as rich a theme of declamation against
the Constitution as has been shown by the smallness of the number
proposed. I omit also any remarks on the difficulty which might be
found, under present circumstances, in engaging in the federal service
a large number of such characters as the people will probably
elect. One observation, however, I must be permitted to add on this
subject as claiming, in my judgment, a very serious attention. It is,
that in all legislative assemblies the greater the number composing
them may be, the fewer will be the men who will in fact direct their
proceedings. In the first place, the more numerous an assembly may be,
of whatever characters composed, the greater is known to be the
ascendency of passion over reason. In the next place, the larger the
number, the greater will be the proportion of members of limited
information and of weak capacities. Now, it is precisely on characters
of this description that the eloquence and address of the few are
known to act with all their force. In the ancient republics, where the
whole body of the people assembled in person, a single orator, or an
artful statesman, was generally seen to rule with as complete a sway
as if a sceptre had been placed in his single hand. On the same
principle, the more multitudinous a representative assembly may be
rendered, the more it will partake of the infirmities incident to
collective meetings of the people.

Ignorance will be the dupe of cunning, and passion the slave of
sophistry and declamation. The people can never err more than in
supposing that by multiplying their representatives beyond a certain
limit, they strengthen the barrier against the government of a
few. Experience will forever admonish them that, on the contrary,
AFTER SECURING A SUFFICIENT NUMBER FOR THE PURPOSES OF SAFETY, OF
LOCAL INFORMATION, AND OF DIFFUSIVE SYMPATHY WITH THE WHOLE SOCIETY,
they will counteract their own views by every addition to their
representatives. The countenance of the government may become more
democratic, but the soul that animates it will be more oligarchic. The
machine will be enlarged, but the fewer, and often the more secret,
will be the springs by which its motions are directed. As connected
with the objection against the number of representatives, may properly
be here noticed, that which has been suggested against the number made
competent for legislative business. It has been said that more than a
majority ought to have been required for a quorum; and in particular
cases, if not in all, more than a majority of a quorum for a
decision. That some advantages might have resulted from such a
precaution, cannot be denied. It might have been an additional shield
to some particular interests, and another obstacle generally to hasty
and partial measures. But these considerations are outweighed by the
inconveniences in the opposite scale. In all cases where justice or
the general good might require new laws to be passed, or active
measures to be pursued, the fundamental principle of free government
would be reversed. It would be no longer the majority that would rule:
the power would be transferred to the minority. Were the defensive
privilege limited to particular cases, an interested minority might
take advantage of it to screen themselves from equitable sacrifices to
the general weal, or, in particular emergencies, to extort
unreasonable indulgences. Lastly, it would facilitate and foster the
baneful practice of secessions; a practice which has shown itself even
in States where a majority only is required; a practice subversive of
all the principles of order and regular government; a practice which
leads more directly to public convulsions, and the ruin of popular
governments, than any other which has yet been displayed among us.
WE HAVE seen the necessity of the Union, as our bulwark against
foreign danger, as the conservator of peace among ourselves, as the
guardian of our commerce and other common interests, as the only
substitute for those military establishments which have subverted the
liberties of the Old World, and as the proper antidote for the
diseases of faction, which have proved fatal to other popular
governments, and of which alarming symptoms have been betrayed by our
own. All that remains, within this branch of our inquiries, is to take
notice of an objection that may be drawn from the great extent of
country which the Union embraces. A few observations on this subject
will be the more proper, as it is perceived that the adversaries of
the new Constitution are availing themselves of the prevailing
prejudice with regard to the practicable sphere of republican
administration, in order to supply, by imaginary difficulties, the
want of those solid objections which they endeavor in vain to find.

The error which limits republican government to a narrow district has
been unfolded and refuted in preceding papers. I remark here only that
it seems to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the confounding of
a republic with a democracy, applying to the former reasonings drawn
from the nature of the latter. The true distinction between these
forms was also adverted to on a former occasion. It is, that in a
democracy, the people meet and exercise the government in person; in a
republic, they assemble and administer it by their representatives and
agents. A democracy, consequently, will be confined to a small spot. A
republic may be extended over a large region.

To this accidental source of the error may be added the artifice of
some celebrated authors, whose writings have had a great share in
forming the modern standard of political opinions. Being subjects
either of an absolute or limited monarchy, they have endeavored to
heighten the advantages, or palliate the evils of those forms, by
placing in comparison the vices and defects of the republican, and by
citing as specimens of the latter the turbulent democracies of ancient
Greece and modern Italy. Under the confusion of names, it has been an
easy task to transfer to a republic observations applicable to a
democracy only; and among others, the observation that it can never be
established but among a small number of people, living within a small
compass of territory.

Such a fallacy may have been the less perceived, as most of the
popular governments of antiquity were of the democratic species; and
even in modern Europe, to which we owe the great principle of
representation, no example is seen of a government wholly popular, and
founded, at the same time, wholly on that principle. If Europe has the
merit of discovering this great mechanical power in government, by the
simple agency of which the will of the largest political body may be
concentred, and its force directed to any object which the public good
requires, America can claim the merit of making the discovery the
basis of unmixed and extensive republics. It is only to be lamented
that any of her citizens should wish to deprive her of the additional
merit of displaying its full efficacy in the establishment of the
comprehensive system now under her consideration.

As the natural limit of a democracy is that distance from the central
point which will just permit the most remote citizens to assemble as
often as their public functions demand, and will include no greater
number than can join in those functions; so the natural limit of a
republic is that distance from the centre which will barely allow the
representatives to meet as often as may be necessary for the
administration of public affairs. Can it be said that the limits of
the United States exceed this distance? It will not be said by those
who recollect that the Atlantic coast is the longest side of the
Union, that during the term of thirteen years, the representatives of
the States have been almost continually assembled, and that the
members from the most distant States are not chargeable with greater
intermissions of attendance than those from the States in the
neighborhood of Congress.

That we may form a juster estimate with regard to this interesting
subject, let us resort to the actual dimensions of the Union. The
limits, as fixed by the treaty of peace, are: on the east the
Atlantic, on the south the latitude of thirty-one degrees, on the west
the Mississippi, and on the north an irregular line running in some
instances beyond the forty-fifth degree, in others falling as low as
the forty-second. The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below that
latitude. Computing the distance between the thirty-first and
forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to nine hundred and seventy-three
common miles; computing it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to
seven hundred and sixty-four miles and a half. Taking the mean for the
distance, the amount will be eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and
three-fourths. The mean distance from the Atlantic to the Mississippi
does not probably exceed seven hundred and fifty miles. On a
comparison of this extent with that of several countries in Europe,
the practicability of rendering our system commensurate to it appears
to be demonstrable. It is not a great deal larger than Germany, where
a diet representing the whole empire is continually assembled; or than
Poland before the late dismemberment, where another national diet was
the depositary of the supreme power. Passing by France and Spain, we
find that in Great Britain, inferior as it may be in size, the
representatives of the northern extremity of the island have as far to
travel to the national council as will be required of those of the
most remote parts of the Union.

Favorable as this view of the subject may be, some observations remain
which will place it in a light still more satisfactory.

In the first place it is to be remembered that the general government
is not to be charged with the whole power of making and administering
laws. Its jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects, which
concern all the members of the republic, but which are not to be
attained by the separate provisions of any. The subordinate
governments, which can extend their care to all those other subjects
which can be separately provided for, will retain their due authority
and activity. Were it proposed by the plan of the convention to
abolish the governments of the particular States, its adversaries
would have some ground for their objection; though it would not be
difficult to show that if they were abolished the general government
would be compelled, by the principle of self-preservation, to
reinstate them in their proper jurisdiction.

A second observation to be made is that the immediate object of the
federal Constitution is to secure the union of the thirteen primitive
States, which we know to be practicable; and to add to them such other
States as may arise in their own bosoms, or in their neighborhoods,
which we cannot doubt to be equally practicable. The arrangements that
may be necessary for those angles and fractions of our territory which
lie on our northwestern frontier, must be left to those whom further
discoveries and experience will render more equal to the task.

Let it be remarked, in the third place, that the intercourse
throughout the Union will be facilitated by new improvements. Roads
will everywhere be shortened, and kept in better order; accommodations
for travelers will be multiplied and meliorated; an interior
navigation on our eastern side will be opened throughout, or nearly
throughout, the whole extent of the thirteen States. The communication
between the Western and Atlantic districts, and between different
parts of each, will be rendered more and more easy by those numerous
canals with which the beneficence of nature has intersected our
country, and which art finds it so little difficult to connect and
complete.

A fourth and still more important consideration is, that as almost
every State will, on one side or other, be a frontier, and will thus
find, in regard to its safety, an inducement to make some sacrifices
for the sake of the general protection; so the States which lie at the
greatest distance from the heart of the Union, and which, of course,
may partake least of the ordinary circulation of its benefits, will be
at the same time immediately contiguous to foreign nations, and will
consequently stand, on particular occasions, in greatest need of its
strength and resources. It may be inconvenient for Georgia, or the
States forming our western or northeastern borders, to send their
representatives to the seat of government; but they would find it more
so to struggle alone against an invading enemy, or even to support
alone the whole expense of those precautions which may be dictated by
the neighborhood of continual danger. If they should derive less
benefit, therefore, from the Union in some respects than the less
distant States, they will derive greater benefit from it in other
respects, and thus the proper equilibrium will be maintained
throughout.

I submit to you, my fellow-citizens, these considerations, in full
confidence that the good sense which has so often marked your
decisions will allow them their due weight and effect; and that you
will never suffer difficulties, however formidable in appearance, or
however fashionable the error on which they may be founded, to drive
you into the gloomy and perilous scene into which the advocates for
disunion would conduct you. Hearken not to the unnatural voice which
tells you that the people of America, knit together as they are by so
many cords of affection, can no longer live together as members of the
same family; can no longer continue the mutual guardians of their
mutual happiness; can no longer be fellowcitizens of one great,
respectable, and flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice which
petulantly tells you that the form of government recommended for your
adoption is a novelty in the political world; that it has never yet
had a place in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it rashly
attempts what it is impossible to accomplish. No, my countrymen, shut
your ears against this unhallowed language. Shut your hearts against
the poison which it conveys; the kindred blood which flows in the
veins of American citizens, the mingled blood which they have shed in
defense of their sacred rights, consecrate their Union, and excite
horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals, enemies. And if
novelties are to be shunned, believe me, the most alarming of all
novelties, the most wild of all projects, the most rash of all
attempts, is that of rendering us in pieces, in order to preserve our
liberties and promote our happiness. But why is the experiment of an
extended republic to be rejected, merely because it may comprise what
is new? Is it not the glory of the people of America, that, whilst
they have paid a decent regard to the opinions of former times and
other nations, they have not suffered a blind veneration for
antiquity, for custom, or for names, to overrule the suggestions of
their own good sense, the knowledge of their own situation, and the
lessons of their own experience? To this manly spirit, posterity will
be indebted for the possession, and the world for the example, of the
numerous innovations displayed on the American theatre, in favor of
private rights and public happiness. Had no important step been taken
by the leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent could not be
discovered, no government established of which an exact model did not
present itself, the people of the United States might, at this moment
have been numbered among the melancholy victims of misguided councils,
must at best have been laboring under the weight of some of those
forms which have crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind. Happily
for America, happily, we trust, for the whole human race, they pursued
a new and more noble course. They accomplished a revolution which has
no parallel in the annals of human society. They reared the fabrics of
governments which have no model on the face of the globe. They formed
the design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent on their
successors to improve and perpetuate. If their works betray
imperfections, we wonder at the fewness of them. If they erred most in
the structure of the Union, this was the work most difficult to be
executed; this is the work which has been new modelled by the act of
your convention, and it is that act on which you are now to deliberate
and to decide.
IN REVIEWING the defects of the existing Confederation, and showing
that they cannot be supplied by a government of less energy than that
before the public, several of the most important principles of the
latter fell of course under consideration. But as the ultimate object
of these papers is to determine clearly and fully the merits of this
Constitution, and the expediency of adopting it, our plan cannot be
complete without taking a more critical and thorough survey of the
work of the convention, without examining it on all its sides,
comparing it in all its parts, and calculating its probable effects.

That this remaining task may be executed under impressions conducive
to a just and fair result, some reflections must in this place be
indulged, which candor previously suggests.

It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs, that public
measures are rarely investigated with that spirit of moderation which
is essential to a just estimate of their real tendency to advance or
obstruct the public good; and that this spirit is more apt to be
diminished than promoted, by those occasions which require an unusual
exercise of it. To those who have been led by experience to attend to
this consideration, it could not appear surprising, that the act of
the convention, which recommends so many important changes and
innovations, which may be viewed in so many lights and relations, and
which touches the springs of so many passions and interests, should
find or excite dispositions unfriendly, both on one side and on the
other, to a fair discussion and accurate judgment of its merits. In
some, it has been too evident from their own publications, that they
have scanned the proposed Constitution, not only with a predisposition
to censure, but with a predetermination to condemn; as the language
held by others betrays an opposite predetermination or bias, which
must render their opinions also of little moment in the question. In
placing, however, these different characters on a level, with respect
to the weight of their opinions, I wish not to insinuate that there
may not be a material difference in the purity of their intentions. It
is but just to remark in favor of the latter description, that as our
situation is universally admitted to be peculiarly critical, and to
require indispensably that something should be done for our relief,
the predetermined patron of what has been actually done may have taken
his bias from the weight of these considerations, as well as from
considerations of a sinister nature. The predetermined adversary, on
the other hand, can have been governed by no venial motive
whatever. The intentions of the first may be upright, as they may on
the contrary be culpable. The views of the last cannot be upright, and
must be culpable. But the truth is, that these papers are not
addressed to persons falling under either of these characters. They
solicit the attention of those only, who add to a sincere zeal for the
happiness of their country, a temper favorable to a just estimate of
the means of promoting it.

Persons of this character will proceed to an examination of the plan
submitted by the convention, not only without a disposition to find or
to magnify faults; but will see the propriety of reflecting, that a
faultless plan was not to be expected. Nor will they barely make
allowances for the errors which may be chargeable on the fallibility
to which the convention, as a body of men, were liable; but will keep
in mind, that they themselves also are but men, and ought not to
assume an infallibility in rejudging the fallible opinions of others.

With equal readiness will it be perceived, that besides these
inducements to candor, many allowances ought to be made for the
difficulties inherent in the very nature of the undertaking referred
to the convention.

The novelty of the undertaking immediately strikes us. It has been
shown in the course of these papers, that the existing Confederation
is founded on principles which are fallacious; that we must
consequently change this first foundation, and with it the
superstructure resting upon it. It has been shown, that the other
confederacies which could be consulted as precedents have been
vitiated by the same erroneous principles, and can therefore furnish
no other light than that of beacons, which give warning of the course
to be shunned, without pointing out that which ought to be
pursued. The most that the convention could do in such a situation,
was to avoid the errors suggested by the past experience of other
countries, as well as of our own; and to provide a convenient mode of
rectifying their own errors, as future experiences may unfold them.

Among the difficulties encountered by the convention, a very important
one must have lain in combining the requisite stability and energy in
government, with the inviolable attention due to liberty and to the
republican form. Without substantially accomplishing this part of
their undertaking, they would have very imperfectly fulfilled the
object of their appointment, or the expectation of the public; yet
that it could not be easily accomplished, will be denied by no one who
is unwilling to betray his ignorance of the subject. Energy in
government is essential to that security against external and internal
danger, and to that prompt and salutary execution of the laws which
enter into the very definition of good government. Stability in
government is essential to national character and to the advantages
annexed to it, as well as to that repose and confidence in the minds
of the people, which are among the chief blessings of civil
society. An irregular and mutable legislation is not more an evil in
itself than it is odious to the people; and it may be pronounced with
assurance that the people of this country, enlightened as they are
with regard to the nature, and interested, as the great body of them
are, in the effects of good government, will never be satisfied till
some remedy be applied to the vicissitudes and uncertainties which
characterize the State administrations. On comparing, however, these
valuable ingredients with the vital principles of liberty, we must
perceive at once the difficulty of mingling them together in their due
proportions. The genius of republican liberty seems to demand on one
side, not only that all power should be derived from the people, but
that those intrusted with it should be kept in independence on the
people, by a short duration of their appointments; and that even
during this short period the trust should be placed not in a few, but
a number of hands. Stability, on the contrary, requires that the hands
in which power is lodged should continue for a length of time the
same. A frequent change of men will result from a frequent return of
elections; and a frequent change of measures from a frequent change of
men: whilst energy in government requires not only a certain duration
of power, but the execution of it by a single hand.

How far the convention may have succeeded in this part of their work,
will better appear on a more accurate view of it. From the cursory
view here taken, it must clearly appear to have been an arduous part.

Not less arduous must have been the task of marking the proper line of
partition between the authority of the general and that of the State
governments. Every man will be sensible of this difficulty, in
proportion as he has been accustomed to contemplate and discriminate
objects extensive and complicated in their nature. The faculties of
the mind itself have never yet been distinguished and defined, with
satisfactory precision, by all the efforts of the most acute and
metaphysical philosophers. Sense, perception, judgment, desire,
volition, memory, imagination, are found to be separated by such
delicate shades and minute gradations that their boundaries have
eluded the most subtle investigations, and remain a pregnant source of
ingenious disquisition and controversy. The boundaries between the
great kingdom of nature, and, still more, between the various
provinces, and lesser portions, into which they are subdivided, afford
another illustration of the same important truth. The most sagacious
and laborious naturalists have never yet succeeded in tracing with
certainty the line which separates the district of vegetable life from
the neighboring region of unorganized matter, or which marks the
ermination of the former and the commencement of the animal empire. A
still greater obscurity lies in the distinctive characters by which
the objects in each of these great departments of nature have been
arranged and assorted.

When we pass from the works of nature, in which all the delineations
are perfectly accurate, and appear to be otherwise only from the
imperfection of the eye which surveys them, to the institutions of
man, in which the obscurity arises as well from the object itself as
from the organ by which it is contemplated, we must perceive the
necessity of moderating still further our expectations and hopes from
the efforts of human sagacity. Experience has instructed us that no
skill in the science of government has yet been able to discriminate
and define, with sufficient certainty, its three great provinces the
legislative, executive, and judiciary; or even the privileges and
powers of the different legislative branches. Questions daily occur in
the course of practice, which prove the obscurity which reins in these
subjects, and which puzzle the greatest adepts in political science.

The experience of ages, with the continued and combined labors of the
most enlightened legislatures and jurists, has been equally
unsuccessful in delineating the several objects and limits of
different codes of laws and different tribunals of justice. The
precise extent of the common law, and the statute law, the maritime
law, the ecclesiastical law, the law of corporations, and other local
laws and customs, remains still to be clearly and finally established
in Great Britain, where accuracy in such subjects has been more
industriously pursued than in any other part of the world. The
jurisdiction of her several courts, general and local, of law, of
equity, of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent and
intricate discussions, sufficiently denoting the indeterminate limits
by which they are respectively circumscribed. All new laws, though
penned with the greatest technical skill, and passed on the fullest
and most mature deliberation, are considered as more or less obscure
and equivocal, until their meaning be liquidated and ascertained by a
series of particular discussions and adjudications. Besides the
obscurity arising from the complexity of objects, and the imperfection
of the human faculties, the medium through which the conceptions of
men are conveyed to each other adds a fresh embarrassment. The use of
words is to express ideas. Perspicuity, therefore, requires not only
that the ideas should be distinctly formed, but that they should be
expressed by words distinctly and exclusively appropriate to them. But
no language is so copious as to supply words and phrases for every
complex idea, or so correct as not to include many equivocally
denoting different ideas. Hence it must happen that however accurately
objects may be discriminated in themselves, and however accurately the
discrimination may be considered, the definition of them may be
rendered inaccurate by the inaccuracy of the terms in which it is
delivered. And this unavoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less,
according to the complexity and novelty of the objects defined. When
the Almighty himself condescends to address mankind in their own
language, his meaning, luminous as it must be, is rendered dim and
doubtful by the cloudy medium through which it is communicated.

Here, then, are three sources of vague and incorrect definitions:
indistinctness of the object, imperfection of the organ of conception,
inadequateness of the vehicle of ideas. Any one of these must produce
a certain degree of obscurity. The convention, in delineating the
boundary between the federal and State jurisdictions, must have
experienced the full effect of them all.

To the difficulties already mentioned may be added the interfering
pretensions of the larger and smaller States. We cannot err in
supposing that the former would contend for a participation in the
government, fully proportioned to their superior wealth and
importance; and that the latter would not be less tenacious of the
equality at present enjoyed by them. We may well suppose that neither
side would entirely yield to the other, and consequently that the
struggle could be terminated only by compromise. It is extremely
probable, also, that after the ratio of representation had been
adjusted, this very compromise must have produced a fresh struggle
between the same parties, to give such a turn to the organization of
the government, and to the distribution of its powers, as would
increase the importance of the branches, in forming which they had
respectively obtained the greatest share of influence. There are
features in the Constitution which warrant each of these suppositions;
and as far as either of them is well founded, it shows that the
convention must have been compelled to sacrifice theoretical propriety
to the force of extraneous considerations.

Nor could it have been the large and small States only, which would
marshal themselves in opposition to each other on various
points. Other combinations, resulting from a difference of local
position and policy, must have created additional difficulties. As
every State may be divided into different districts, and its citizens
into different classes, which give birth to contending interests and
local jealousies, so the different parts of the United States are
distinguished from each other by a variety of circumstances, which
produce a like effect on a larger scale. And although this variety of
interests, for reasons sufficiently explained in a former paper, may
have a salutary influence on the administration of the government when
formed, yet every one must be sensible of the contrary influence,
which must have been experienced in the task of forming it.

Would it be wonderful if, under the pressure of all these
difficulties, the convention should have been forced into some
deviations from that artificial structure and regular symmetry which
an abstract view of the subject might lead an ingenious theorist to
bestow on a Constitution planned in his closet or in his imagination?
The real wonder is that so many difficulties should have been
surmounted, and surmounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented as
it must have been unexpected. It is impossible for any man of candor
to reflect on this circumstance without partaking of the
astonishment. It is impossible for the man of pious reflection not to
perceive in it a finger of that Almighty hand which has been so
frequently and signally extended to our relief in the critical stages
of the revolution.

We had occasion, in a former paper, to take notice of the repeated
trials which have been unsuccessfully made in the United Netherlands
for reforming the baneful and notorious vices of their
constitution. The history of almost all the great councils and
consultations held among mankind for reconciling their discordant
opinions, assuaging their mutual jealousies, and adjusting their
respective interests, is a history of factions, contentions, and
disappointments, and may be classed among the most dark and degraded
pictures which display the infirmities and depravities of the human
character. If, in a few scattered instances, a brighter aspect is
presented, they serve only as exceptions to admonish us of the general
truth; and by their lustre to darken the gloom of the adverse prospect
to which they are contrasted. In revolving the causes from which these
exceptions result, and applying them to the particular instances
before us, we are necessarily led to two important conclusions. The
first is, that the convention must have enjoyed, in a very singular
degree, an exemption from the pestilential influence of party
animosities the disease most incident to deliberative bodies, and most
apt to contaminate their proceedings. The second conclusion is that
all the deputations composing the convention were satisfactorily
accommodated by the final act, or were induced to accede to it by a
deep conviction of the necessity of sacrificing private opinions and
partial interests to the public good, and by a despair of seeing this
necessity diminished by delays or by new experiments.
IT IS not a little remarkable that in every case reported by ancient
history, in which government has been established with deliberation
and consent, the task of framing it has not been committed to an
assembly of men, but has been performed by some individual citizen of
preeminent wisdom and approved integrity.

Minos, we learn, was the primitive founder of the government of Crete,
as Zaleucus was of that of the Locrians. Theseus first, and after him
Draco and Solon, instituted the government of Athens. Lycurgus was the
lawgiver of Sparta. The foundation of the original government of Rome
was laid by Romulus, and the work completed by two of his elective
successors, Numa and Tullius Hostilius. On the abolition of royalty
the consular administration was substituted by Brutus, who stepped
forward with a project for such a reform, which, he alleged, had been
prepared by Tullius Hostilius, and to which his address obtained the
assent and ratification of the senate and people. This remark is
applicable to confederate governments also. Amphictyon, we are told,
was the author of that which bore his name. The Achaean league
received its first birth from Achaeus, and its second from Aratus.

What degree of agency these reputed lawgivers might have in their
respective establishments, or how far they might be clothed with the
legitimate authority of the people, cannot in every instance be
ascertained. In some, however, the proceeding was strictly
regular. Draco appears to have been intrusted by the people of Athens
with indefinite powers to reform its government and laws. And Solon,
according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled, by the universal
suffrage of his fellow-citizens, to take upon him the sole and
absolute power of new-modeling the constitution. The proceedings under
Lycurgus were less regular; but as far as the advocates for a regular
reform could prevail, they all turned their eyes towards the single
efforts of that celebrated patriot and sage, instead of seeking to
bring about a revolution by the intervention of a deliberative body of
citizens.

Whence could it have proceeded, that a people, jealous as the Greeks
were of their liberty, should so far abandon the rules of caution as
to place their destiny in the hands of a single citizen? Whence could
it have proceeded, that the Athenians, a people who would not suffer
an army to be commanded by fewer than ten generals, and who required
no other proof of danger to their liberties than the illustrious merit
of a fellow-citizen, should consider one illustrious citizen as a more
eligible depositary of the fortunes of themselves and their posterity,
than a select body of citizens, from whose common deliberations more
wisdom, as well as more safety, might have been expected? These
questions cannot be fully answered, without supposing that the fears
of discord and disunion among a number of counsellors exceeded the
apprehension of treachery or incapacity in a single
individual. History informs us, likewise, of the difficulties with
which these celebrated reformers had to contend, as well as the
expedients which they were obliged to employ in order to carry their
reforms into effect. Solon, who seems to have indulged a more
temporizing policy, confessed that he had not given to his countrymen
the government best suited to their happiness, but most tolerable to
their prejudices. And Lycurgus, more true to his object, was under the
necessity of mixing a portion of violence with the authority of
superstition, and of securing his final success by a voluntary
renunciation, first of his country, and then of his life. If these
lessons teach us, on one hand, to admire the improvement made by
America on the ancient mode of preparing and establishing regular
plans of government, they serve not less, on the other, to admonish us
of the hazards and difficulties incident to such experiments, and of
the great imprudence of unnecessarily multiplying them.

Is it an unreasonable conjecture, that the errors which may be
contained in the plan of the convention are such as have resulted
rather from the defect of antecedent experience on this complicated
and difficult subject, than from a want of accuracy or care in the
investigation of it; and, consequently such as will not be ascertained
until an actual trial shall have pointed them out? This conjecture is
rendered probable, not only by many considerations of a general
nature, but by the particular case of the Articles of
Confederation. It is observable that among the numerous objections and
amendments suggested by the several States, when these articles were
submitted for their ratification, not one is found which alludes to
the great and radical error which on actual trial has discovered
itself. And if we except the observations which New Jersey was led to
make, rather by her local situation, than by her peculiar foresight,
it may be questioned whether a single suggestion was of sufficient
moment to justify a revision of the system. There is abundant reason,
nevertheless, to suppose that immaterial as these objections were,
they would have been adhered to with a very dangerous inflexibility,
in some States, had not a zeal for their opinions and supposed
interests been stifled by the more powerful sentiment of
selfpreservation. One State, we may remember, persisted for several
years in refusing her concurrence, although the enemy remained the
whole period at our gates, or rather in the very bowels of our
country. Nor was her pliancy in the end effected by a less motive,
than the fear of being chargeable with protracting the public
calamities, and endangering the event of the contest. Every candid
reader will make the proper reflections on these important facts.

A patient who finds his disorder daily growing worse, and that an
efficacious remedy can no longer be delayed without extreme danger,
after coolly revolving his situation, and the characters of different
physicians, selects and calls in such of them as he judges most
capable of administering relief, and best entitled to his
confidence. The physicians attend; the case of the patient is
carefully examined; a consultation is held; they are unanimously
agreed that the symptoms are critical, but that the case, with proper
and timely relief, is so far from being desperate, that it may be made
to issue in an improvement of his constitution. They are equally
unanimous in prescribing the remedy, by which this happy effect is to
be produced. The prescription is no sooner made known, however, than a
number of persons interpose, and, without denying the reality or
danger of the disorder, assure the patient that the prescription will
be poison to his constitution, and forbid him, under pain of certain
death, to make use of it. Might not the patient reasonably demand,
before he ventured to follow this advice, that the authors of it
should at least agree among themselves on some other remedy to be
substituted? And if he found them differing as much from one another
as from his first counsellors, would he not act prudently in trying
the experiment unanimously recommended by the latter, rather than be
hearkening to those who could neither deny the necessity of a speedy
remedy, nor agree in proposing one?

Such a patient and in such a situation is America at this moment. She
has been sensible of her malady. She has obtained a regular and
unanimous advice from men of her own deliberate choice. And she is
warned by others against following this advice under pain of the most
fatal consequences. Do the monitors deny the reality of her danger?
No. Do they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful remedy?
No. Are they agreed, are any two of them agreed, in their objections
to the remedy proposed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let
them speak for themselves. This one tells us that the proposed
Constitution ought to be rejected, because it is not a confederation
of the States, but a government over individuals. Another admits that
it ought to be a government over individuals to a certain extent, but
by no means to the extent proposed. A third does not object to the
government over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to the
want of a bill of rights. A fourth concurs in the absolute necessity
of a bill of rights, but contends that it ought to be declaratory, not
of the personal rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved to
the States in their political capacity. A fifth is of opinion that a
bill of rights of any sort would be superfluous and misplaced, and
that the plan would be unexceptionable but for the fatal power of
regulating the times and places of election. An objector in a large
State exclaims loudly against the unreasonable equality of
representation in the Senate. An objector in a small State is equally
loud against the dangerous inequality in the House of
Representatives. From this quarter, we are alarmed with the amazing
expense, from the number of persons who are to administer the new
government. From another quarter, and sometimes from the same quarter,
on another occasion, the cry is that the Congress will be but a shadow
of a representation, and that the government would be far less
objectionable if the number and the expense were doubled. A patriot in
a State that does not import or export, discerns insuperable
objections against the power of direct taxation. The patriotic
adversary in a State of great exports and imports, is not less
dissatisfied that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on
consumption. This politician discovers in the Constitution a direct
and irresistible tendency to monarchy; that is equally sure it will
end in aristocracy. Another is puzzled to say which of these shapes it
will ultimately assume, but sees clearly it must be one or other of
them; whilst a fourth is not wanting, who with no less confidence
affirms that the Constitution is so far from having a bias towards
either of these dangers, that the weight on that side will not be
sufficient to keep it upright and firm against its opposite
propensities. With another class of adversaries to the Constitution
the language is that the legislative, executive, and judiciary
departments are intermixed in such a manner as to contradict all the
ideas of regular government and all the requisite precautions in favor
of liberty. Whilst this objection circulates in vague and general
expressions, there are but a few who lend their sanction to it. Let
each one come forward with his particular explanation, and scarce any
two are exactly agreed upon the subject. In the eyes of one the
junction of the Senate with the President in the responsible function
of appointing to offices, instead of vesting this executive power in
the Executive alone, is the vicious part of the organization. To
another, the exclusion of the House of Representatives, whose numbers
alone could be a due security against corruption and partiality in the
exercise of such a power, is equally obnoxious. With another, the
admission of the President into any share of a power which ever must
be a dangerous engine in the hands of the executive magistrate, is an
unpardonable violation of the maxims of republican jealousy. No part
of the arrangement, according to some, is more inadmissible than the
trial of impeachments by the Senate, which is alternately a member
both of the legislative and executive departments, when this power so
evidently belonged to the judiciary department. "We concur fully,"
reply others, "in the objection to this part of the plan, but we can
never agree that a reference of impeachments to the judiciary
authority would be an amendment of the error. Our principal dislike to
the organization arises from the extensive powers already lodged in
that department." Even among the zealous patrons of a council of state
the most irreconcilable variance is discovered concerning the mode in
which it ought to be constituted. The demand of one gentleman is, that
the council should consist of a small number to be appointed by the
most numerous branch of the legislature. Another would prefer a larger
number, and considers it as a fundamental condition that the
appointment should be made by the President himself.

As it can give no umbrage to the writers against the plan of the
federal Constitution, let us suppose, that as they are the most
zealous, so they are also the most sagacious, of those who think the
late convention were unequal to the task assigned them, and that a
wiser and better plan might and ought to be substituted. Let us
further suppose that their country should concur, both in this
favorable opinion of their merits, and in their unfavorable opinion of
the convention; and should accordingly proceed to form them into a
second convention, with full powers, and for the express purpose of
revising and remoulding the work of the first. Were the experiment to
be seriously made, though it required some effort to view it seriously
even in fiction, I leave it to be decided by the sample of opinions
just exhibited, whether, with all their enmity to their predecessors,
they would, in any one point, depart so widely from their example, as
in the discord and ferment that would mark their own deliberations;
and whether the Constitution, now before the public, would not stand
as fair a chance for immortality, as Lycurgus gave to that of Sparta,
by making its change to depend on his own return from exile and death,
if it were to be immediately adopted, and were to continue in force,
not until a BETTER, but until ANOTHER should be agreed upon by this
new assembly of lawgivers.

It is a matter both of wonder and regret, that those who raise so many
objections against the new Constitution should never call to mind the
defects of that which is to be exchanged for it. It is not necessary
that the former should be perfect; it is sufficient that the latter is
more imperfect. No man would refuse to give brass for silver or gold,
because the latter had some alloy in it. No man would refuse to quit a
shattered and tottering habitation for a firm and commodious building,
because the latter had not a porch to it, or because some of the rooms
might be a little larger or smaller, or the ceilings a little higher
or lower than his fancy would have planned them. But waiving
illustrations of this sort, is it not manifest that most of the
capital objections urged against the new system lie with tenfold
weight against the existing Confederation? Is an indefinite power to
raise money dangerous in the hands of the federal government? The
present Congress can make requisitions to any amount they please, and
the States are constitutionally bound to furnish them; they can emit
bills of credit as long as they will pay for the paper; they can
borrow, both abroad and at home, as long as a shilling will be
lent. Is an indefinite power to raise troops dangerous? The
Confederation gives to Congress that power also; and they have already
begun to make use of it. Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the
different powers of government in the same body of men? Congress, a
single body of men, are the sole depositary of all the federal
powers. Is it particularly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury,
and the command of the army, into the same hands? The Confederation
places them both in the hands of Congress. Is a bill of rights
essential to liberty? The Confederation has no bill of rights. Is it
an objection against the new Constitution, that it empowers the
Senate, with the concurrence of the Executive, to make treaties which
are to be the laws of the land? The existing Congress, without any
such control, can make treaties which they themselves have declared,
and most of the States have recognized, to be the supreme law of the
land. Is the importation of slaves permitted by the new Constitution
for twenty years? By the old it is permitted forever.

I shall be told, that however dangerous this mixture of powers may be
in theory, it is rendered harmless by the dependence of Congress on
the State for the means of carrying them into practice; that however
large the mass of powers may be, it is in fact a lifeless mass. Then,
say I, in the first place, that the Confederation is chargeable with
the still greater folly of declaring certain powers in the federal
government to be absolutely necessary, and at the same time rendering
them absolutely nugatory; and, in the next place, that if the Union is
to continue, and no better government be substituted, effective powers
must either be granted to, or assumed by, the existing Congress; in
either of which events, the contrast just stated will hold good. But
this is not all. Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an
excrescent power, which tends to realize all the dangers that can be
apprehended from a defective construction of the supreme government of
the Union. It is now no longer a point of speculation and hope, that
the Western territory is a mine of vast wealth to the United States;
and although it is not of such a nature as to extricate them from
their present distresses, or for some time to come, to yield any
regular supplies for the public expenses, yet must it hereafter be
able, under proper management, both to effect a gradual discharge of
the domestic debt, and to furnish, for a certain period, liberal
tributes to the federal treasury. A very large proportion of this fund
has been already surrendered by individual States; and it may with
reason be expected that the remaining States will not persist in
withholding similar proofs of their equity and generosity. We may
calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile country, of an area
equal to the inhabited extent of the United States, will soon become a
national stock. Congress have assumed the administration of this
stock. They have begun to render it productive. Congress have
undertaken to do more: they have proceeded to form new States, to
erect temporary governments, to appoint officers for them, and to
prescribe the conditions on which such States shall be admitted into
the Confederacy. All this has been done; and done without the least
color of constitutional authority. Yet no blame has been whispered; no
alarm has been sounded. A GREAT and INDEPENDENT fund of revenue is
passing into the hands of a SINGLE BODY of men, who can RAISE TROOPS
to an INDEFINITE NUMBER, and appropriate money to their support for an
INDEFINITE PERIOD OF TIME. And yet there are men, who have not only
been silent spectators of this prospect, but who are advocates for the
system which exhibits it; and, at the same time, urge against the new
system the objections which we have heard. Would they not act with
more consistency, in urging the establishment of the latter, as no
less necessary to guard the Union against the future powers and
resources of a body constructed like the existing Congress, than to
save it from the dangers threatened by the present impotency of that
Assembly?

I mean not, by any thing here said, to throw censure on the measures
which have been pursued by Congress. I am sensible they could not have
done otherwise. The public interest, the necessity of the case,
imposed upon them the task of overleaping their constitutional
limits. But is not the fact an alarming proof of the danger resulting
from a government which does not possess regular powers commensurate
to its objects? A dissolution or usurpation is the dreadful dilemma to
which it is continually exposed.
THE last paper having concluded the observations which were meant to
introduce a candid survey of the plan of government reported by the
convention, we now proceed to the execution of that part of our
undertaking.

The first question that offers itself is, whether the general form and
aspect of the government be strictly republican. It is evident that no
other form would be reconcilable with the genius of the people of
America; with the fundamental principles of the Revolution; or with
that honorable determination which animates every votary of freedom,
to rest all our political experiments on the capacity of mankind for
self-government. If the plan of the convention, therefore, be found to
depart from the republican character, its advocates must abandon it as
no longer defensible.

What, then, are the distinctive characters of the republican form?
Were an answer to this question to be sought, not by recurring to
principles, but in the application of the term by political writers,
to the constitution of different States, no satisfactory one would
ever be found. Holland, in which no particle of the supreme authority
is derived from the people, has passed almost universally under the
denomination of a republic. The same title has been bestowed on
Venice, where absolute power over the great body of the people is
exercised, in the most absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary
nobles. Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy and of monarchy in
their worst forms, has been dignified with the same appellation. The
government of England, which has one republican branch only, combined
with an hereditary aristocracy and monarchy, has, with equal
impropriety, been frequently placed on the list of republics. These
examples, which are nearly as dissimilar to each other as to a genuine
republic, show the extreme inaccuracy with which the term has been
used in political disquisitions.

If we resort for a criterion to the different principles on which
different forms of government are established, we may define a
republic to be, or at least may bestow that name on, a government
which derives all its powers directly or indirectly from the great
body of the people, and is administered by persons holding their
offices during pleasure, for a limited period, or during good
behavior. It is ESSENTIAL to such a government that it be derived from
the great body of the society, not from an inconsiderable proportion,
or a favored class of it; otherwise a handful of tyrannical nobles,
exercising their oppressions by a delegation of their powers, might
aspire to the rank of republicans, and claim for their government the
honorable title of republic. It is SUFFICIENT for such a government
that the persons administering it be appointed, either directly or
indirectly, by the people; and that they hold their appointments by
either of the tenures just specified; otherwise every government in
the United States, as well as every other popular government that has
been or can be well organized or well executed, would be degraded from
the republican character. According to the constitution of every State
in the Union, some or other of the officers of government are
appointed indirectly only by the people. According to most of them,
the chief magistrate himself is so appointed. And according to one,
this mode of appointment is extended to one of the co-ordinate
branches of the legislature. According to all the constitutions, also,
the tenure of the highest offices is extended to a definite period,
and in many instances, both within the legislative and executive
departments, to a period of years. According to the provisions of most
of the constitutions, again, as well as according to the most
respectable and received opinions on the subject, the members of the
judiciary department are to retain their offices by the firm tenure of
good behavior.

On comparing the Constitution planned by the convention with the
standard here fixed, we perceive at once that it is, in the most rigid
sense, conformable to it. The House of Representatives, like that of
one branch at least of all the State legislatures, is elected
immediately by the great body of the people. The Senate, like the
present Congress, and the Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment
indirectly from the people. The President is indirectly derived from
the choice of the people, according to the example in most of the
States. Even the judges, with all other officers of the Union, will,
as in the several States, be the choice, though a remote choice, of
the people themselves, the duration of the appointments is equally
conformable to the republican standard, and to the model of State
constitutions The House of Representatives is periodically elective,
as in all the States; and for the period of two years, as in the State
of South Carolina. The Senate is elective, for the period of six
years; which is but one year more than the period of the Senate of
Maryland, and but two more than that of the Senates of New York and
Virginia. The President is to continue in office for the period of
four years; as in New York and Delaware, the chief magistrate is
elected for three years, and in South Carolina for two years. In the
other States the election is annual. In several of the States,
however, no constitutional provision is made for the impeachment of
the chief magistrate. And in Delaware and Virginia he is not
impeachable till out of office. The President of the United States is
impeachable at any time during his continuance in office. The tenure
by which the judges are to hold their places, is, as it unquestionably
ought to be, that of good behavior. The tenure of the ministerial
offices generally, will be a subject of legal regulation, conformably
to the reason of the case and the example of the State constitutions.

Could any further proof be required of the republican complexion of
this system, the most decisive one might be found in its absolute
prohibition of titles of nobility, both under the federal and the
State governments; and in its express guaranty of the republican form
to each of the latter.

"But it was not sufficient," say the adversaries of the proposed
Constitution, "for the convention to adhere to the republican
form. They ought, with equal care, to have preserved the FEDERAL form,
which regards the Union as a CONFEDERACY of sovereign states; instead
of which, they have framed a NATIONAL government, which regards the
Union as a CONSOLIDATION of the States." And it is asked by what
authority this bold and radical innovation was undertaken? The handle
which has been made of this objection requires that it should be
examined with some precision.

Without inquiring into the accuracy of the distinction on which the
objection is founded, it will be necessary to a just estimate of its
force, first, to ascertain the real character of the government in
question; secondly, to inquire how far the convention were authorized
to propose such a government; and thirdly, how far the duty they owed
to their country could supply any defect of regular authority.

First. In order to ascertain the real character of the government, it
may be considered in relation to the foundation on which it is to be
established; to the sources from which its ordinary powers are to be
drawn; to the operation of those powers; to the extent of them; and to
the authority by which future changes in the government are to be
introduced.

On examining the first relation, it appears, on one hand, that the
Constitution is to be founded on the assent and ratification of the
people of America, given by deputies elected for the special purpose;
but, on the other, that this assent and ratification is to be given by
the people, not as individuals composing one entire nation, but as
composing the distinct and independent States to which they
respectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratification of the
several States, derived from the supreme authority in each State, the
authority of the people themselves. The act, therefore, establishing
the Constitution, will not be a NATIONAL, but a FEDERAL act.

That it will be a federal and not a national act, as these terms are
understood by the objectors; the act of the people, as forming so many
independent States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is obvious
from this single consideration, that it is to result neither from the
decision of a MAJORITY of the people of the Union, nor from that of a
MAJORITY of the States. It must result from the UNANIMOUS assent of
the several States that are parties to it, differing no otherwise from
their ordinary assent than in its being expressed, not by the
legislative authority, but by that of the people themselves. Were the
people regarded in this transaction as forming one nation, the will of
the majority of the whole people of the United States would bind the
minority, in the same manner as the majority in each State must bind
the minority; and the will of the majority must be determined either
by a comparison of the individual votes, or by considering the will of
the majority of the States as evidence of the will of a majority of
the people of the United States. Neither of these rules have been
adopted. Each State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as a
sovereign body, independent of all others, and only to be bound by its
own voluntary act. In this relation, then, the new Constitution will,
if established, be a FEDERAL, and not a NATIONAL constitution.

The next relation is, to the sources from which the ordinary powers of
government are to be derived. The House of Representatives will derive
its powers from the people of America; and the people will be
represented in the same proportion, and on the same principle, as they
are in the legislature of a particular State. So far the government is
NATIONAL, not FEDERAL. The Senate, on the other hand, will derive its
powers from the States, as political and coequal societies; and these
will be represented on the principle of equality in the Senate, as
they now are in the existing Congress. So far the government is
FEDERAL, not NATIONAL. The executive power will be derived from a very
compound source. The immediate election of the President is to be made
by the States in their political characters. The votes allotted to
them are in a compound ratio, which considers them partly as distinct
and coequal societies, partly as unequal members of the same
society. The eventual election, again, is to be made by that branch of
the legislature which consists of the national representatives; but in
this particular act they are to be thrown into the form of individual
delegations, from so many distinct and coequal bodies politic. From
this aspect of the government it appears to be of a mixed character,
presenting at least as many FEDERAL as NATIONAL features.

The difference between a federal and national government, as it
relates to the OPERATION OF THE GOVERNMENT, is supposed to consist in
this, that in the former the powers operate on the political bodies
composing the Confederacy, in their political capacities; in the
latter, on the individual citizens composing the nation, in their
individual capacities. On trying the Constitution by this criterion,
it falls under the NATIONAL, not the FEDERAL character; though perhaps
not so completely as has been understood. In several cases, and
particularly in the trial of controversies to which States may be
parties, they must be viewed and proceeded against in their collective
and political capacities only. So far the national countenance of the
government on this side seems to be disfigured by a few federal
features. But this blemish is perhaps unavoidable in any plan; and the
operation of the government on the people, in their individual
capacities, in its ordinary and most essential proceedings, may, on
the whole, designate it, in this relation, a NATIONAL government.

But if the government be national with regard to the OPERATION of its
powers, it changes its aspect again when we contemplate it in relation
to the EXTENT of its powers. The idea of a national government
involves in it, not only an authority over the individual citizens,
but an indefinite supremacy over all persons and things, so far as
they are objects of lawful government. Among a people consolidated
into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested in the national
legislature. Among communities united for particular purposes, it is
vested partly in the general and partly in the municipal
legislatures. In the former case, all local authorities are
subordinate to the supreme; and may be controlled, directed, or
abolished by it at pleasure. In the latter, the local or municipal
authorities form distinct and independent portions of the supremacy,
no more subject, within their respective spheres, to the general
authority, than the general authority is subject to them, within its
own sphere. In this relation, then, the proposed government cannot be
deemed a NATIONAL one; since its jurisdiction extends to certain
enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several States a residuary
and inviolable sovereignty over all other objects. It is true that in
controversies relating to the boundary between the two jurisdictions,
the tribunal which is ultimately to decide, is to be established under
the general government. But this does not change the principle of the
case. The decision is to be impartially made, according to the rules
of the Constitution; and all the usual and most effectual precautions
are taken to secure this impartiality. Some such tribunal is clearly
essential to prevent an appeal to the sword and a dissolution of the
compact; and that it ought to be established under the general rather
than under the local governments, or, to speak more properly, that it
could be safely established under the first alone, is a position not
likely to be combated.

If we try the Constitution by its last relation to the authority by
which amendments are to be made, we find it neither wholly NATIONAL
nor wholly FEDERAL. Were it wholly national, the supreme and ultimate
authority would reside in the MAJORITY of the people of the Union; and
this authority would be competent at all times, like that of a
majority of every national society, to alter or abolish its
established government. Were it wholly federal, on the other hand, the
concurrence of each State in the Union would be essential to every
alteration that would be binding on all. The mode provided by the plan
of the convention is not founded on either of these principles. In
requiring more than a majority, and principles. In requiring more than
a majority, and particularly in computing the proportion by STATES,
not by CITIZENS, it departs from the NATIONAL and advances towards the
FEDERAL character; in rendering the concurrence of less than the whole
number of States sufficient, it loses again the FEDERAL and partakes
of the NATIONAL character.

The proposed Constitution, therefore, is, in strictness, neither a
national nor a federal Constitution, but a composition of both. In its
foundation it is federal, not national; in the sources from which the
ordinary powers of the government are drawn, it is partly federal and
partly national; in the operation of these powers, it is national, not
federal; in the extent of them, again, it is federal, not national;
and, finally, in the authoritative mode of introducing amendments, it
is neither wholly federal nor wholly national.
THE SECOND point to be examined is, whether the convention were
authorized to frame and propose this mixed Constitution. The powers of
the convention ought, in strictness, to be determined by an inspection
of the commissions given to the members by their respective
constituents. As all of these, however, had reference, either to the
recommendation from the meeting at Annapolis, in September, 1786, or
to that from Congress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to
recur to these particular acts. The act from Annapolis recommends the
"appointment of commissioners to take into consideration the situation
of the United States; to devise SUCH FURTHER PROVISIONS as shall
appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the federal
government ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF THE UNION; and to report such
an act for that purpose, to the United States in Congress assembled,
as when agreed to by them, and afterwards confirmed by the legislature
of every State, will effectually provide for the same. "The
recommendatory act of Congress is in the words following:"WHEREAS,
There is provision in the articles of Confederation and perpetual
Union, for making alterations therein, by the assent of a Congress of
the United States, and of the legislatures of the several States; and
whereas experience hath evinced, that there are defects in the present
Confederation; as a mean to remedy which, several of the States, and
PARTICULARLY THE STATE OF NEW YORK, by express instructions to their
delegates in Congress, have suggested a convention for the purposes
expressed in the following resolution; and such convention appearing
to be the most probable mean of establishing in these States A FIRM
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT:"Resolved, That in the opinion of Congress it is
expedient, that on the second Monday of May next a convention of
delegates, who shall have been appointed by the several States, be
held at Philadelphia, for the sole and express purpose OF REVISING THE
ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION, and reporting to Congress and the several
legislatures such ALTERATIONS AND PROVISIONS THEREIN, as shall, when
agreed to in Congress, and confirmed by the States, render the federal
Constitution ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT AND THE
PRESERVATION OF THE UNION. "From these two acts, it appears, 1st, that
the object of the convention was to establish, in these States, A FIRM
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT; 2d, that this government was to be such as would
be ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT and THE PRESERVATION OF
THE UNION; 3d, that these purposes were to be effected by ALTERATIONS
AND PROVISIONS IN THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION, as it is expressed in
the act of Congress, or by SUCH FURTHER PROVISIONS AS SHOULD APPEAR
NECESSARY, as it stands in the recommendatory act from Annapolis; 4th,
that the alterations and provisions were to be reported to Congress,
and to the States, in order to be agreed to by the former and
confirmed by the latter. From a comparison and fair construction of
these several modes of expression, is to be deduced the authority
under which the convention acted. They were to frame a NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT, adequate to the EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT, and OF THE
UNION; and to reduce the articles of Confederation into such form as
to accomplish these purposes.

There are two rules of construction, dictated by plain reason, as well
as founded on legal axioms. The one is, that every part of the
expression ought, if possible, to be allowed some meaning, and be made
to conspire to some common end. The other is, that where the several
parts cannot be made to coincide, the less important should give way
to the more important part; the means should be sacrificed to the end,
rather than the end to the means. Suppose, then, that the expressions
defining the authority of the convention were irreconcilably at
variance with each other; that a NATIONAL and ADEQUATE GOVERNMENT
could not possibly, in the judgment of the convention, be affected by
ALTERATIONS and PROVISIONS in the ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION; which
part of the definition ought to have been embraced, and which
rejected? Which was the more important, which the less important part?
Which the end; which the means? Let the most scrupulous expositors of
delegated powers; let the most inveterate objectors against those
exercised by the convention, answer these questions. Let them declare,
whether it was of most importance to the happiness of the people of
America, that the articles of Confederation should be disregarded, and
an adequate government be provided, and the Union preserved; or that
an adequate government should be omitted, and the articles of
Confederation preserved. Let them declare, whether the preservation of
these articles was the end, for securing which a reform of the
government was to be introduced as the means; or whether the
establishment of a government, adequate to the national happiness, was
the end at which these articles themselves originally aimed, and to
which they ought, as insufficient means, to have been sacrificed. But
is it necessary to suppose that these expressions are absolutely
irreconcilable to each other; that no ALTERATIONS or PROVISIONS in THE
ARTICLES OF THE CONFEDERATION could possibly mould them into a
national and adequate government; into such a government as has been
proposed by the convention? No stress, it is presumed, will, in this
case, be laid on the TITLE; a change of that could never be deemed an
exercise of ungranted power. ALTERATIONS in the body of the instrument
are expressly authorized. NEW PROVISIONS therein are also expressly
authorized. Here then is a power to change the title; to insert new
articles; to alter old ones. Must it of necessity be admitted that
this power is infringed, so long as a part of the old articles remain?
Those who maintain the affirmative ought at least to mark the boundary
between authorized and usurped innovations; between that degree of
change which lies within the compass of ALTERATIONS AND FURTHER
PROVISIONS, and that which amounts to a TRANSMUTATION of the
government. Will it be said that the alterations ought not to have
touched the substance of the Confederation? The States would never
have appointed a convention with so much solemnity, nor described its
objects with so much latitude, if some SUBSTANTIAL reform had not been
in contemplation. Will it be said that the FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES of
the Confederation were not within the purview of the convention, and
ought not to have been varied? I ask, What are these principles? Do
they require that, in the establishment of the Constitution, the
States should be regarded as distinct and independent sovereigns? They
are so regarded by the Constitution proposed. Do they require that the
members of the government should derive their appointment from the
legislatures, not from the people of the States? One branch of the new
government is to be appointed by these legislatures; and under the
Confederation, the delegates to Congress MAY ALL be appointed
immediately by the people, and in two States [1] are actually so
appointed. Do they require that the powers of the government should
act on the States, and not immediately on individuals? In some
instances, as has been shown, the powers of the new government will
act on the States in their collective characters. In some instances,
also, those of the existing government act immediately on
individuals. In cases of capture; of piracy; of the post office; of
coins, weights, and measures; of trade with the Indians; of claims
under grants of land by different States; and, above all, in the case
of trials by courts-marshal in the army and navy, by which death may
be inflicted without the intervention of a jury, or even of a civil
magistrate; in all these cases the powers of the Confederation operate
immediately on the persons and interests of individual citizens. Do
these fundamental principles require, particularly, that no tax should
be levied without the intermediate agency of the States? The
Confederation itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on
the post office. The power of coinage has been so construed by
Congress as to levy a tribute immediately from that source also. But
pretermitting these instances, was it not an acknowledged object of
the convention and the universal expectation of the people, that the
regulation of trade should be submitted to the general government in
such a form as would render it an immediate source of general revenue?
Had not Congress repeatedly recommended this measure as not
inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the Confederation? Had
not every State but one; had not New York herself, so far complied
with the plan of Congress as to recognize the PRINCIPLE of the
innovation? Do these principles, in fine, require that the powers of
the general government should be limited, and that, beyond this limit,
the States should be left in possession of their sovereignty and
independence? We have seen that in the new government, as in the old,
the general powers are limited; and that the States, in all
unenumerated cases, are left in the enjoyment of their sovereign and
independent jurisdiction. The truth is, that the great principles of
the Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered less as
absolutely new, than as the expansion of principles which are found in
the articles of Confederation. The misfortune under the latter system
has been, that these principles are so feeble and confined as to
justify all the charges of inefficiency which have been urged against
it, and to require a degree of enlargement which gives to the new
system the aspect of an entire transformation of the old. In one
particular it is admitted that the convention have departed from the
tenor of their commission. Instead of reporting a plan requiring the
confirmation OF THE LEGISLATURES OF ALL THE STATES, they have reported
a plan which is to be confirmed by the PEOPLE, and may be carried into
effect by NINE STATES ONLY. It is worthy of remark that this
objection, though the most plausible, has been the least urged in the
publications which have swarmed against the convention. The
forbearance can only have proceeded from an irresistible conviction of
the absurdity of subjecting the fate of twelve States to the
perverseness or corruption of a thirteenth; from the example of
inflexible opposition given by a MAJORITY of one sixtieth of the
people of America to a measure approved and called for by the voice of
twelve States, comprising fifty-nine sixtieths of the people an
example still fresh in the memory and indignation of every citizen who
has felt for the wounded honor and prosperity of his country. As this
objection, therefore, has been in a manner waived by those who have
criticised the powers of the convention, I dismiss it without further
observation. The THIRD point to be inquired into is, how far
considerations of duty arising out of the case itself could have
supplied any defect of regular authority. In the preceding inquiries
the powers of the convention have been analyzed and tried with the
same rigor, and by the same rules, as if they had been real and final
powers for the establishment of a Constitution for the United
States. We have seen in what manner they have borne the trial even on
that supposition. It is time now to recollect that the powers were
merely advisory and recommendatory; that they were so meant by the
States, and so understood by the convention; and that the latter have
accordingly planned and proposed a Constitution which is to be of no
more consequence than the paper on which it is written, unless it be
stamped with the approbation of those to whom it is addressed. This
reflection places the subject in a point of view altogether different,
and will enable us to judge with propriety of the course taken by the
convention. Let us view the ground on which the convention stood. It
may be collected from their proceedings, that they were deeply and
unanimously impressed with the crisis, which had led their country
almost with one voice to make so singular and solemn an experiment for
correcting the errors of a system by which this crisis had been
produced; that they were no less deeply and unanimously convinced that
such a reform as they have proposed was absolutely necessary to effect
the purposes of their appointment. It could not be unknown to them
that the hopes and expectations of the great body of citizens,
throughout this great empire, were turned with the keenest anxiety to
the event of their deliberations. They had every reason to believe
that the contrary sentiments agitated the minds and bosoms of every
external and internal foe to the liberty and prosperity of the United
States. They had seen in the origin and progress of the experiment,
the alacrity with which the PROPOSITION, made by a single State
(Virginia), towards a partial amendment of the Confederation, had been
attended to and promoted. They had seen the LIBERTY ASSUMED by a VERY
FEW deputies from a VERY FEW States, convened at Annapolis, of
recommending a great and critical object, wholly foreign to their
commission, not only justified by the public opinion, but actually
carried into effect by twelve out of the thirteen States. They had
seen, in a variety of instances, assumptions by Congress, not only of
recommendatory, but of operative, powers, warranted, in the public
estimation, by occasions and objects infinitely less urgent than those
by which their conduct was to be governed. They must have reflected,
that in all great changes of established governments, forms ought to
give way to substance; that a rigid adherence in such cases to the
former, would render nominal and nugatory the transcendent and
precious right of the people to "abolish or alter their governments as
to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness,"
[2] since it is impossible for the people spontaneously and
universally to move in concert towards their object; and it is
therefore essential that such changes be instituted by some INFORMAL
AND UNAUTHORIZED PROPOSITIONS, made by some patriotic and respectable
citizen or number of citizens. They must have recollected that it was
by this irregular and assumed privilege of proposing to the people
plans for their safety and happiness, that the States were first
united against the danger with which they were threatened by their
ancient government; that committees and congresses were formed for
concentrating their efforts and defending their rights; and that
CONVENTIONS were ELECTED in THE SEVERAL STATES for establishing the
constitutions under which they are now governed; nor could it have
been forgotten that no little ill-timed scruples, no zeal for adhering
to ordinary forms, were anywhere seen, except in those who wished to
indulge, under these masks, their secret enmity to the substance
contended for. They must have borne in mind, that as the plan to be
framed and proposed was to be submitted TO THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES, the
disapprobation of this supreme authority would destroy it forever; its
approbation blot out antecedent errors and irregularities. It might
even have occurred to them, that where a disposition to cavil
prevailed, their neglect to execute the degree of power vested in
them, and still more their recommendation of any measure whatever, not
warranted by their commission, would not less excite animadversion,
than a recommendation at once of a measure fully commensurate to the
national exigencies. Had the convention, under all these impressions,
and in the midst of all these considerations, instead of exercising a
manly confidence in their country, by whose confidence they had been
so peculiarly distinguished, and of pointing out a system capable, in
their judgment, of securing its happiness, taken the cold and sullen
resolution of disappointing its ardent hopes, of sacrificing substance
to forms, of committing the dearest interests of their country to the
uncertainties of delay and the hazard of events, let me ask the man
who can raise his mind to one elevated conception, who can awaken in
his bosom one patriotic emotion, what judgment ought to have been
pronounced by the impartial world, by the friends of mankind, by every
virtuous citizen, on the conduct and character of this assembly? Or if
there be a man whose propensity to condemn is susceptible of no
control, let me then ask what sentence he has in reserve for the
twelve States who USURPED THE POWER of sending deputies to the
convention, a body utterly unknown to their constitutions; for
Congress, who recommended the appointment of this body, equally
unknown to the Confederation; and for the State of New York, in
particular, which first urged and then complied with this unauthorized
interposition? But that the objectors may be disarmed of every
pretext, it shall be granted for a moment that the convention were
neither authorized by their commission, nor justified by circumstances
in proposing a Constitution for their country: does it follow that the
Constitution ought, for that reason alone, to be rejected? If,
according to the noble precept, it be lawful to accept good advice
even from an enemy, shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such
advice even when it is offered by our friends? The prudent inquiry, in
all cases, ought surely to be, not so much FROM WHOM the advice comes,
as whether the advice be GOOD. The sum of what has been here advanced
and proved is, that the charge against the convention of exceeding
their powers, except in one instance little urged by the objectors,
has no foundation to support it; that if they had exceeded their
powers, they were not only warranted, but required, as the
confidential servants of their country, by the circumstances in which
they were placed, to exercise the liberty which they assume; and that
finally, if they had violated both their powers and their obligations,
in proposing a Constitution, this ought nevertheless to be embraced,
if it be calculated to accomplish the views and happiness of the
people of America. How far this character is due to the Constitution,
is the subject under investigation.
THE Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered under
two general points of view. The FIRST relates to the sum or quantity
of power which it vests in the government, including the restraints
imposed on the States. The SECOND, to the particular structure of the
government, and the distribution of this power among its several
branches. Under the FIRST view of the subject, two important questions
arise: 1. Whether any part of the powers transferred to the general
government be unnecessary or improper? 2. Whether the entire mass of
them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left in the several
States? Is the aggregate power of the general government greater than
ought to have been vested in it? This is the FIRST question. It cannot
have escaped those who have attended with candor to the arguments
employed against the extensive powers of the government, that the
authors of them have very little considered how far these powers were
necessary means of attaining a necessary end. They have chosen rather
to dwell on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably blended with
all political advantages; and on the possible abuses which must be
incident to every power or trust, of which a beneficial use can be
made. This method of handling the subject cannot impose on the good
sense of the people of America. It may display the subtlety of the
writer; it may open a boundless field for rhetoric and declamation; it
may inflame the passions of the unthinking, and may confirm the
prejudices of the misthinking: but cool and candid people will at once
reflect, that the purest of human blessings must have a portion of
alloy in them; that the choice must always be made, if not of the
lesser evil, at least of the GREATER, not the PERFECT, good; and that
in every political institution, a power to advance the public
happiness involves a discretion which may be misapplied and
abused. They will see, therefore, that in all cases where power is to
be conferred, the point first to be decided is, whether such a power
be necessary to the public good; as the next will be, in case of an
affirmative decision, to guard as effectually as possible against a
perversion of the power to the public detriment. That we may form a
correct judgment on this subject, it will be proper to review the
several powers conferred on the government of the Union; and that this
may be the more conveniently done they may be reduced into different
classes as they relate to the following different objects: 1. Security
against foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with foreign
nations; 3. Maintenance of harmony and proper intercourse among the
States; 4. Certain miscellaneous objects of general utility;
5. Restraint of the States from certain injurious acts; 6. Provisions
for giving due efficacy to all these powers. The powers falling within
the FIRST class are those of declaring war and granting letters of
marque; of providing armies and fleets; of regulating and calling
forth the militia; of levying and borrowing money. Security against
foreign danger is one of the primitive objects of civil society. It is
an avowed and essential object of the American Union. The powers
requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided to the federal
councils. Is the power of declaring war necessary? No man will answer
this question in the negative. It would be superfluous, therefore, to
enter into a proof of the affirmative. The existing Confederation
establishes this power in the most ample form. Is the power of raising
armies and equipping fleets necessary? This is involved in the
foregoing power. It is involved in the power of self-defense. But was
it necessary to give an INDEFINITE POWER of raising TROOPS, as well as
providing fleets; and of maintaining both in PEACE, as well as in war?
The answer to these questions has been too far anticipated in another
place to admit an extensive discussion of them in this place. The
answer indeed seems to be so obvious and conclusive as scarcely to
justify such a discussion in any place. With what color of propriety
could the force necessary for defense be limited by those who cannot
limit the force of offense? If a federal Constitution could chain the
ambition or set bounds to the exertions of all other nations, then
indeed might it prudently chain the discretion of its own government,
and set bounds to the exertions for its own safety.

How could a readiness for war in time of peace be safely prohibited,
unless we could prohibit, in like manner, the preparations and
establishments of every hostile nation? The means of security can only
be regulated by the means and the danger of attack. They will, in
fact, be ever determined by these rules, and by no others. It is in
vain to oppose constitutional barriers to the impulse of
self-preservation. It is worse than in vain; because it plants in the
Constitution itself necessary usurpations of power, every precedent of
which is a germ of unnecessary and multiplied repetitions. If one
nation maintains constantly a disciplined army, ready for the service
of ambition or revenge, it obliges the most pacific nations who may be
within the reach of its enterprises to take corresponding precautions.

The fifteenth century was the unhappy epoch of military establishments
in the time of peace. They were introduced by Charles VII. of
France. All Europe has followed, or been forced into, the example. Had
the example not been followed by other nations, all Europe must long
ago have worn the chains of a universal monarch. Were every nation
except France now to disband its peace establishments, the same event
might follow. The veteran legions of Rome were an overmatch for the
undisciplined valor of all other nations and rendered her the mistress
of the world. Not the less true is it, that the liberties of Rome
proved the final victim to her military triumphs; and that the
liberties of Europe, as far as they ever existed, have, with few
exceptions, been the price of her military establishments. A standing
force, therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time that it may be a
necessary, provision. On the smallest scale it has its
inconveniences. On an extensive scale its consequences may be
fatal. On any scale it is an object of laudable circumspection and
precaution. A wise nation will combine all these considerations; and,
whilst it does not rashly preclude itself from any resource which may
become essential to its safety, will exert all its prudence in
diminishing both the necessity and the danger of resorting to one
which may be inauspicious to its liberties. The clearest marks of this
prudence are stamped on the proposed Constitution. The Union itself,
which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext for a military
establishment which could be dangerous. America united, with a handful
of troops, or without a single soldier, exhibits a more forbidding
posture to foreign ambition than America disunited, with a hundred
thousand veterans ready for combat. It was remarked, on a former
occasion, that the want of this pretext had saved the liberties of one
nation in Europe. Being rendered by her insular situation and her
maritime resources impregnable to the armies of her neighbors, the
rulers of Great Britain have never been able, by real or artificial
dangers, to cheat the public into an extensive peace
establishment. The distance of the United States from the powerful
nations of the world gives them the same happy security. A dangerous
establishment can never be necessary or plausible, so long as they
continue a united people. But let it never, for a moment, be forgotten
that they are indebted for this advantage to the Union alone. The
moment of its dissolution will be the date of a new order of
things. The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the stronger
States, or Confederacies, will set the same example in the New, as
Charles VII. did in the Old World. The example will be followed here
from the same motives which produced universal imitation
there. Instead of deriving from our situation the precious advantage
which Great Britain has derived from hers, the face of America will be
but a copy of that of the continent of Europe. It will present liberty
everywhere crushed between standing armies and perpetual taxes. The
fortunes of disunited America will be even more disastrous than those
of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter are confined to her own
limits. No superior powers of another quarter of the globe intrigue
among her rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and render
them the instruments of foreign ambition, jealousy, and revenge. In
America the miseries springing from her internal jealousies,
contentions, and wars, would form a part only of her lot. A plentiful
addition of evils would have their source in that relation in which
Europe stands to this quarter of the earth, and which no other quarter
of the earth bears to Europe. This picture of the consequences of
disunion cannot be too highly colored, or too often exhibited. Every
man who loves peace, every man who loves his country, every man who
loves liberty, ought to have it ever before his eyes, that he may
cherish in his heart a due attachment to the Union of America, and be
able to set a due value on the means of preserving it.

Next to the effectual establishment of the Union, the best possible
precaution against danger from standing armies is a limitation of the
term for which revenue may be appropriated to their support. This
precaution the Constitution has prudently added. I will not repeat
here the observations which I flatter myself have placed this subject
in a just and satisfactory light. But it may not be improper to take
notice of an argument against this part of the Constitution, which has
been drawn from the policy and practice of Great Britain. It is said
that the continuance of an army in that kingdom requires an annual
vote of the legislature; whereas the American Constitution has
lengthened this critical period to two years. This is the form in
which the comparison is usually stated to the public: but is it a just
form? Is it a fair comparison? Does the British Constitution restrain
the parliamentary discretion to one year? Does the American impose on
the Congress appropriations for two years? On the contrary, it cannot
be unknown to the authors of the fallacy themselves, that the British
Constitution fixes no limit whatever to the discretion of the
legislature, and that the American ties down the legislature to two
years, as the longest admissible term. Had the argument from the
British example been truly stated, it would have stood thus: The term
for which supplies may be appropriated to the army establishment,
though unlimited by the British Constitution, has nevertheless, in
practice, been limited by parliamentary discretion to a single
year. Now, if in Great Britain, where the House of Commons is elected
for seven years; where so great a proportion of the members are
elected by so small a proportion of the people; where the electors are
so corrupted by the representatives, and the representatives so
corrupted by the Crown, the representative body can possess a power to
make appropriations to the army for an indefinite term, without
desiring, or without daring, to extend the term beyond a single year,
ought not suspicion herself to blush, in pretending that the
representatives of the United States, elected FREELY by the WHOLE BODY
of the people, every SECOND YEAR, cannot be safely intrusted with the
discretion over such appropriations, expressly limited to the short
period of TWO YEARS? A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself. Of
this truth, the management of the opposition to the federal government
is an unvaried exemplification. But among all the blunders which have
been committed, none is more striking than the attempt to enlist on
that side the prudent jealousy entertained by the people, of standing
armies. The attempt has awakened fully the public attention to that
important subject; and has led to investigations which must terminate
in a thorough and universal conviction, not only that the constitution
has provided the most effectual guards against danger from that
quarter, but that nothing short of a Constitution fully adequate to
the national defense and the preservation of the Union, can save
America from as many standing armies as it may be split into States or
Confederacies, and from such a progressive augmentation, of these
establishments in each, as will render them as burdensome to the
properties and ominous to the liberties of the people, as any
establishment that can become necessary, under a united and efficient
government, must be tolerable to the former and safe to the
latter. The palpable necessity of the power to provide and maintain a
navy has protected that part of the Constitution against a spirit of
censure, which has spared few other parts. It must, indeed, be
numbered among the greatest blessings of America, that as her Union
will be the only source of her maritime strength, so this will be a
principal source of her security against danger from abroad. In this
respect our situation bears another likeness to the insular advantage
of Great Britain. The batteries most capable of repelling foreign
enterprises on our safety, are happily such as can never be turned by
a perfidious government against our liberties. The inhabitants of the
Atlantic frontier are all of them deeply interested in this provision
for naval protection, and if they have hitherto been suffered to sleep
quietly in their beds; if their property has remained safe against the
predatory spirit of licentious adventurers; if their maritime towns
have not yet been compelled to ransom themselves from the terrors of a
conflagration, by yielding to the exactions of daring and sudden
invaders, these instances of good fortune are not to be ascribed to
the capacity of the existing government for the protection of those
from whom it claims allegiance, but to causes that are fugitive and
fallacious. If we except perhaps Virginia and Maryland, which are
peculiarly vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of the Union
ought to feel more anxiety on this subject than New York. Her seacoast
is extensive. A very important district of the State is an island. The
State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river for more than
fifty leagues. The great emporium of its commerce, the great reservoir
of its wealth, lies every moment at the mercy of events, and may
almost be regarded as a hostage for ignominious compliances with the
dictates of a foreign enemy, or even with the rapacious demands of
pirates and barbarians. Should a war be the result of the precarious
situation of European affairs, and all the unruly passions attending
it be let loose on the ocean, our escape from insults and
depredations, not only on that element, but every part of the other
bordering on it, will be truly miraculous. In the present condition of
America, the States more immediately exposed to these calamities have
nothing to hope from the phantom of a general government which now
exists; and if their single resources were equal to the task of
fortifying themselves against the danger, the object to be protected
would be almost consumed by the means of protecting them. The power of
regulating and calling forth the militia has been already sufficiently
vindicated and explained. The power of levying and borrowing money,
being the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the national
defense, is properly thrown into the same class with it. This power,
also, has been examined already with much attention, and has, I trust,
been clearly shown to be necessary, both in the extent and form given
to it by the Constitution. I will address one additional reflection
only to those who contend that the power ought to have been restrained
to external taxation by which they mean, taxes on articles imported
from other countries. It cannot be doubted that this will always be a
valuable source of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be a
principal source; that at this moment it is an essential one. But we
may form very mistaken ideas on this subject, if we do not call to
mind in our calculations, that the extent of revenue drawn from
foreign commerce must vary with the variations, both in the extent and
the kind of imports; and that these variations do not correspond with
the progress of population, which must be the general measure of the
public wants. As long as agriculture continues the sole field of
labor, the importation of manufactures must increase as the consumers
multiply. As soon as domestic manufactures are begun by the hands not
called for by agriculture, the imported manufactures will decrease as
the numbers of people increase. In a more remote stage, the imports
may consist in a considerable part of raw materials, which will be
wrought into articles for exportation, and will, therefore, require
rather the encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with
discouraging duties. A system of government, meant for duration, ought
to contemplate these revolutions, and be able to accommodate itself to
them. Some, who have not denied the necessity of the power of
taxation, have grounded a very fierce attack against the Constitution,
on the language in which it is defined. It has been urged and echoed,
that the power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and
excises, to pay the debts, and provide for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States," amounts to an unlimited
commission to exercise every power which may be alleged to be
necessary for the common defense or general welfare. No stronger proof
could be given of the distress under which these writers labor for
objections, than their stooping to such a misconstruction. Had no
other enumeration or definition of the powers of the Congress been
found in the Constitution, than the general expressions just cited,
the authors of the objection might have had some color for it; though
it would have been difficult to find a reason for so awkward a form of
describing an authority to legislate in all possible cases. A power to
destroy the freedom of the press, the trial by jury, or even to
regulate the course of descents, or the forms of conveyances, must be
very singularly expressed by the terms "to raise money for the general
welfare. "But what color can the objection have, when a specification
of the objects alluded to by these general terms immediately follows,
and is not even separated by a longer pause than a semicolon? If the
different parts of the same instrument ought to be so expounded, as to
give meaning to every part which will bear it, shall one part of the
same sentence be excluded altogether from a share in the meaning; and
shall the more doubtful and indefinite terms be retained in their full
extent, and the clear and precise expressions be denied any
signification whatsoever? For what purpose could the enumeration of
particular powers be inserted, if these and all others were meant to
be included in the preceding general power? Nothing is more natural
nor common than first to use a general phrase, and then to explain and
qualify it by a recital of particulars. But the idea of an enumeration
of particulars which neither explain nor qualify the general meaning,
and can have no other effect than to confound and mislead, is an
absurdity, which, as we are reduced to the dilemma of charging either
on the authors of the objection or on the authors of the Constitution,
we must take the liberty of supposing, had not its origin with the
latter. The objection here is the more extraordinary, as it appears
that the language used by the convention is a copy from the articles
of Confederation. The objects of the Union among the States, as
described in article third, are "their common defense, security of
their liberties, and mutual and general welfare. " The terms of
article eighth are still more identical: "All charges of war and all
other expenses that shall be incurred for the common defense or
general welfare, and allowed by the United States in Congress, shall
be defrayed out of a common treasury," etc. A similar language again
occurs in article ninth. Construe either of these articles by the
rules which would justify the construction put on the new
Constitution, and they vest in the existing Congress a power to
legislate in all cases whatsoever.

But what would have been thought of that assembly, if, attaching
themselves to these general expressions, and disregarding the
specifications which ascertain and limit their import, they had
exercised an unlimited power of providing for the common defense and
general welfare? I appeal to the objectors themselves, whether they
would in that case have employed the same reasoning in justification
of Congress as they now make use of against the convention. How
difficult it is for error to escape its own condemnation!
THE SECOND class of powers, lodged in the general government, consists
of those which regulate the intercourse with foreign nations, to wit:
to make treaties; to send and receive ambassadors, other public
ministers, and consuls; to define and punish piracies and felonies
committed on the high seas, and offenses against the law of nations;
to regulate foreign commerce, including a power to prohibit, after the
year 1808, the importation of slaves, and to lay an intermediate duty
of ten dollars per head, as a discouragement to such
importations. This class of powers forms an obvious and essential
branch of the federal administration. If we are to be one nation in
any respect, it clearly ought to be in respect to other nations. The
powers to make treaties and to send and receive ambassadors, speak
their own propriety. Both of them are comprised in the articles of
Confederation, with this difference only, that the former is
disembarrassed, by the plan of the convention, of an exception, under
which treaties might be substantially frustrated by regulations of the
States; and that a power of appointing and receiving "other public
ministers and consuls," is expressly and very properly added to the
former provision concerning ambassadors. The term ambassador, if taken
strictly, as seems to be required by the second of the articles of
Confederation, comprehends the highest grade only of public ministers,
and excludes the grades which the United States will be most likely to
prefer, where foreign embassies may be necessary. And under no
latitude of construction will the term comprehend consuls. Yet it has
been found expedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to employ
the inferior grades of public ministers, and to send and receive
consuls. It is true, that where treaties of commerce stipulate for the
mutual appointment of consuls, whose functions are connected with
commerce, the admission of foreign consuls may fall within the power
of making commercial treaties; and that where no such treaties exist,
the mission of American consuls into foreign countries may PERHAPS be
covered under the authority, given by the ninth article of the
Confederation, to appoint all such civil officers as may be necessary
for managing the general affairs of the United States. But the
admission of consuls into the United States, where no previous treaty
has stipulated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for. A supply
of the omission is one of the lesser instances in which the convention
have improved on the model before them. But the most minute provisions
become important when they tend to obviate the necessity or the
pretext for gradual and unobserved usurpations of power. A list of the
cases in which Congress have been betrayed, or forced by the defects
of the Confederation, into violations of their chartered authorities,
would not a little surprise those who have paid no attention to the
subject; and would be no inconsiderable argument in favor of the new
Constitution, which seems to have provided no less studiously for the
lesser, than the more obvious and striking defects of the old. The
power to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high
seas, and offenses against the law of nations, belongs with equal
propriety to the general government, and is a still greater
improvement on the articles of Confederation. These articles contain
no provision for the case of offenses against the law of nations; and
consequently leave it in the power of any indiscreet member to embroil
the Confederacy with foreign nations. The provision of the federal
articles on the subject of piracies and felonies extends no further
than to the establishment of courts for the trial of these
offenses. The definition of piracies might, perhaps, without
inconveniency, be left to the law of nations; though a legislative
definition of them is found in most municipal codes.

A definition of felonies on the high seas is evidently
requisite. Felony is a term of loose signification, even in the common
law of England; and of various import in the statute law of that
kingdom. But neither the common nor the statute law of that, or of any
other nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings of this,
unless previously made its own by legislative adoption. The meaning of
the term, as defined in the codes of the several States, would be as
impracticable as the former would be a dishonorable and illegitimate
guide. It is not precisely the same in any two of the States; and
varies in each with every revision of its criminal laws. For the sake
of certainty and uniformity, therefore, the power of defining felonies
in this case was in every respect necessary and proper.

The regulation of foreign commerce, having fallen within several views
which have been taken of this subject, has been too fully discussed to
need additional proofs here of its being properly submitted to the
federal administration. It were doubtless to be wished, that the power
of prohibiting the importation of slaves had not been postponed until
the year 1808, or rather that it had been suffered to have immediate
operation. But it is not difficult to account, either for this
restriction on the general government, or for the manner in which the
whole clause is expressed. It ought to be considered as a great point
gained in favor of humanity, that a period of twenty years may
terminate forever, within these States, a traffic which has so long
and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of modern policy; that within
that period, it will receive a considerable discouragement from the
federal government, and may be totally abolished, by a concurrence of
the few States which continue the unnatural traffic, in the
prohibitory example which has been given by so great a majority of the
Union. Happy would it be for the unfortunate Africans, if an equal
prospect lay before them of being redeemed from the oppressions of
their European brethren!

Attempts have been made to pervert this clause into an objection
against the Constitution, by representing it on one side as a criminal
toleration of an illicit practice, and on another as calculated to
prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from Europe to America. I
mention these misconstructions, not with a view to give them an
answer, for they deserve none, but as specimens of the manner and
spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct their opposition to
the proposed government. The powers included in the THIRD class are
those which provide for the harmony and proper intercourse among the
States. Under this head might be included the particular restraints
imposed on the authority of the States, and certain powers of the
judicial department; but the former are reserved for a distinct class,
and the latter will be particularly examined when we arrive at the
structure and organization of the government. I shall confine myself
to a cursory review of the remaining powers comprehended under this
third description, to wit: to regulate commerce among the several
States and the Indian tribes; to coin money, regulate the value
thereof, and of foreign coin; to provide for the punishment of
counterfeiting the current coin and secureties of the United States;
to fix the standard of weights and measures; to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization, and uniform laws of bankruptcy, to prescribe
the manner in which the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
of each State shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other
States; and to establish post offices and post roads. The defect of
power in the existing Confederacy to regulate the commerce between its
several members, is in the number of those which have been clearly
pointed out by experience. To the proofs and remarks which former
papers have brought into view on this subject, it may be added that
without this supplemental provision, the great and essential power of
regulating foreign commerce would have been incomplete and
ineffectual. A very material object of this power was the relief of
the States which import and export through other States, from the
improper contributions levied on them by the latter. Were these at
liberty to regulate the trade between State and State, it must be
foreseen that ways would be found out to load the articles of import
and export, during the passage through their jurisdiction, with duties
which would fall on the makers of the latter and the consumers of the
former. We may be assured by past experience, that such a practice
would be introduced by future contrivances; and both by that and a
common knowledge of human affairs, that it would nourish unceasing
animosities, and not improbably terminate in serious interruptions of
the public tranquillity. To those who do not view the question through
the medium of passion or of interest, the desire of the commercial
States to collect, in any form, an indirect revenue from their
uncommercial neighbors, must appear not less impolitic than it is
unfair; since it would stimulate the injured party, by resentment as
well as interest, to resort to less convenient channels for their
foreign trade. But the mild voice of reason, pleading the cause of an
enlarged and permanent interest, is but too often drowned, before
public bodies as well as individuals, by the clamors of an impatient
avidity for immediate and immoderate gain. The necessity of a
superintending authority over the reciprocal trade of confederated
States, has been illustrated by other examples as well as our own. In
Switzerland, where the Union is so very slight, each canton is obliged
to allow to merchandises a passage through its jurisdiction into other
cantons, without an augmentation of the tolls. In Germany it is a law
of the empire, that the princes and states shall not lay tolls or
customs on bridges, rivers, or passages, without the consent of the
emperor and the diet; though it appears from a quotation in an
antecedent paper, that the practice in this, as in many other
instances in that confederacy, has not followed the law, and has
produced there the mischiefs which have been foreseen here. Among the
restraints imposed by the Union of the Netherlands on its members, one
is, that they shall not establish imposts disadvantageous to their
neighbors, without the general permission. The regulation of commerce
with the Indian tribes is very properly unfettered from two
limitations in the articles of Confederation, which render the
provision obscure and contradictory. The power is there restrained to
Indians, not members of any of the States, and is not to violate or
infringe the legislative right of any State within its own
limits. What description of Indians are to be deemed members of a
State, is not yet settled, and has been a question of frequent
perplexity and contention in the federal councils. And how the trade
with Indians, though not members of a State, yet residing within its
legislative jurisdiction, can be regulated by an external authority,
without so far intruding on the internal rights of legislation, is
absolutely incomprehensible. This is not the only case in which the
articles of Confederation have inconsiderately endeavored to
accomplish impossibilities; to reconcile a partial sovereignty in the
Union, with complete sovereignty in the States; to subvert a
mathematical axiom, by taking away a part, and letting the whole
remain. All that need be remarked on the power to coin money, regulate
the value thereof, and of foreign coin, is, that by providing for this
last case, the Constitution has supplied a material omission in the
articles of Confederation. The authority of the existing Congress is
restrained to the regulation of coin STRUCK by their own authority, or
that of the respective States. It must be seen at once that the
proposed uniformity in the VALUE of the current coin might be
destroyed by subjecting that of foreign coin to the different
regulations of the different States. The punishment of counterfeiting
the public securities, as well as the current coin, is submitted of
course to that authority which is to secure the value of both. The
regulation of weights and measures is transferred from the articles of
Confederation, and is founded on like considerations with the
preceding power of regulating coin.

The dissimilarity in the rules of naturalization has long been
remarked as a fault in our system, and as laying a foundation for
intricate and delicate questions. In the fourth article of the
Confederation, it is declared "that the FREE INHABITANTS of each of
these States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice,
excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of FREE
CITIZENS in the several States; and THE PEOPLE of each State shall, in
every other, enjoy all the privileges of trade and commerce,"
etc. There is a confusion of language here, which is remarkable. Why
the terms FREE INHABITANTS are used in one part of the article, FREE
CITIZENS in another, and PEOPLE in another; or what was meant by
superadding to "all privileges and immunities of free citizens," "all
the privileges of trade and commerce," cannot easily be determined. It
seems to be a construction scarcely avoidable, however, that those who
come under the denomination of FREE INHABITANTS of a State, although
not citizens of such State, are entitled, in every other State, to all
the privileges of FREE CITIZENS of the latter; that is, to greater
privileges than they may be entitled to in their own State: so that it
may be in the power of a particular State, or rather every State is
laid under a necessity, not only to confer the rights of citizenship
in other States upon any whom it may admit to such rights within
itself, but upon any whom it may allow to become inhabitants within
its jurisdiction. But were an exposition of the term "inhabitants" to
be admitted which would confine the stipulated privileges to citizens
alone, the difficulty is diminished only, not removed. The very
improper power would still be retained by each State, of naturalizing
aliens in every other State. In one State, residence for a short term
confirms all the rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of
greater importance are required. An alien, therefore, legally
incapacitated for certain rights in the latter, may, by previous
residence only in the former, elude his incapacity; and thus the law
of one State be preposterously rendered paramount to the law of
another, within the jurisdiction of the other. We owe it to mere
casualty, that very serious embarrassments on this subject have been
hitherto escaped. By the laws of several States, certain descriptions
of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious, were laid under
interdicts inconsistent not only with the rights of citizenship but
with the privilege of residence. What would have been the consequence,
if such persons, by residence or otherwise, had acquired the character
of citizens under the laws of another State, and then asserted their
rights as such, both to residence and citizenship, within the State
proscribing them? Whatever the legal consequences might have been,
other consequences would probably have resulted, of too serious a
nature not to be provided against. The new Constitution has
accordingly, with great propriety, made provision against them, and
all others proceeding from the defect of the Confederation on this
head, by authorizing the general government to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization throughout the United States. The power of
establishing uniform laws of bankruptcy is so intimately connected
with the regulation of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds where
the parties or their property may lie or be removed into different
States, that the expediency of it seems not likely to be drawn into
question. The power of prescribing by general laws, the manner in
which the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of each State
shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other States, is an
evident and valuable improvement on the clause relating to this
subject in the articles of Confederation. The meaning of the latter is
extremely indeterminate, and can be of little importance under any
interpretation which it will bear. The power here established may be
rendered a very convenient instrument of justice, and be particularly
beneficial on the borders of contiguous States, where the effects
liable to justice may be suddenly and secretly translated, in any
stage of the process, within a foreign jurisdiction. The power of
establishing post roads must, in every view, be a harmless power, and
may, perhaps, by judicious management, become productive of great
public conveniency.

Nothing which tends to facilitate the intercourse between the States
can be deemed unworthy of the public care.
THE FOURTH class comprises the following miscellaneous powers:1. A
power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by
securing, for a limited time, to authors and inventors, the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries. "The utility of
this power will scarcely be questioned. The copyright of authors has
been solemnly adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common
law. The right to useful inventions seems with equal reason to belong
to the inventors.

The public good fully coincides in both cases with the claims of
individuals. The States cannot separately make effectual provisions
for either of the cases, and most of them have anticipated the
decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance of
Congress. 2. "To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases
whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as
may, by cession of particular States and the acceptance of Congress,
become the seat of the government of the United States; and to
exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent of
the legislatures of the States in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other needful
buildings. "The indispensable necessity of complete authority at the
seat of government, carries its own evidence with it. It is a power
exercised by every legislature of the Union, I might say of the world,
by virtue of its general supremacy. Without it, not only the public
authority might be insulted and its proceedings interrupted with
impunity; but a dependence of the members of the general government on
the State comprehending the seat of the government, for protection in
the exercise of their duty, might bring on the national councils an
imputation of awe or influence, equally dishonorable to the government
and dissatisfactory to the other members of the Confederacy. This
consideration has the more weight, as the gradual accumulation of
public improvements at the stationary residence of the government
would be both too great a public pledge to be left in the hands of a
single State, and would create so many obstacles to a removal of the
government, as still further to abridge its necessary
independence. The extent of this federal district is sufficiently
circumscribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite nature. And as
it is to be appropriated to this use with the consent of the State
ceding it; as the State will no doubt provide in the compact for the
rights and the consent of the citizens inhabiting it; as the
inhabitants will find sufficient inducements of interest to become
willing parties to the cession; as they will have had their voice in
the election of the government which is to exercise authority over
them; as a municipal legislature for local purposes, derived from
their own suffrages, will of course be allowed them; and as the
authority of the legislature of the State, and of the inhabitants of
the ceded part of it, to concur in the cession, will be derived from
the whole people of the State in their adoption of the Constitution,
every imaginable objection seems to be obviated. The necessity of a
like authority over forts, magazines, etc. , established by the
general government, is not less evident. The public money expended on
such places, and the public property deposited in them, requires that
they should be exempt from the authority of the particular State. Nor
would it be proper for the places on which the security of the entire
Union may depend, to be in any degree dependent on a particular member
of it. All objections and scruples are here also obviated, by
requiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in every such
establishment. 3. "To declare the punishment of treason, but no
attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture,
except during the life of the person attained. "As treason may be
committed against the United States, the authority of the United
States ought to be enabled to punish it. But as new-fangled and
artificial treasons have been the great engines by which violent
factions, the natural offspring of free government, have usually
wreaked their alternate malignity on each other, the convention have,
with great judgment, opposed a barrier to this peculiar danger, by
inserting a constitutional definition of the crime, fixing the proof
necessary for conviction of it, and restraining the Congress, even in
punishing it, from extending the consequences of guilt beyond the
person of its author. 4. "To admit new States into the Union; but no
new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any
other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more
States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of
the States concerned, as well as of the Congress. "In the articles of
Confederation, no provision is found on this important subject. Canada
was to be admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of the
United States; and the other COLONIES, by which were evidently meant
the other British colonies, at the discretion of nine States. The
eventual establishment of NEW STATES seems to have been overlooked by
the compilers of that instrument. We have seen the inconvenience of
this omission, and the assumption of power into which Congress have
been led by it. With great propriety, therefore, has the new system
supplied the defect. The general precaution, that no new States shall
be formed, without the concurrence of the federal authority, and that
of the States concerned, is consonant to the principles which ought to
govern such transactions. The particular precaution against the
erection of new States, by the partition of a State without its
consent, quiets the jealousy of the larger States; as that of the
smaller is quieted by a like precaution, against a junction of States
without their consent. 5. "To dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging
to the United States, with a proviso, that nothing in the Constitution
shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular State. "This is a power of very great importance,
and required by considerations similar to those which show the
propriety of the former. The proviso annexed is proper in itself, and
was probably rendered absolutely necessary by jealousies and questions
concerning the Western territory sufficiently known to the
public. 6. "To guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form
of government; to protect each of them against invasion; and on
application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the
legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence. "In a
confederacy founded on republican principles, and composed of
republican members, the superintending government ought clearly to
possess authority to defend the system against aristocratic or
monarchial innovations. The more intimate the nature of such a union
may be, the greater interest have the members in the political
institutions of each other; and the greater right to insist that the
forms of government under which the compact was entered into should be
SUBSTANTIALLY maintained. But a right implies a remedy; and where else
could the remedy be deposited, than where it is deposited by the
Constitution? Governments of dissimilar principles and forms have been
found less adapted to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a
kindred nature. "As the confederate republic of Germany," says
Montesquieu, "consists of free cities and petty states, subject to
different princes, experience shows us that it is more imperfect than
that of Holland and Switzerland. " "Greece was undone," he adds, "as
soon as the king of Macedon obtained a seat among the Amphictyons. "
In the latter case, no doubt, the disproportionate force, as well as
the monarchical form, of the new confederate, had its share of
influence on the events. It may possibly be asked, what need there
could be of such a precaution, and whether it may not become a pretext
for alterations in the State governments, without the concurrence of
the States themselves. These questions admit of ready answers. If the
interposition of the general government should not be needed, the
provision for such an event will be a harmless superfluity only in the
Constitution. But who can say what experiments may be produced by the
caprice of particular States, by the ambition of enterprising leaders,
or by the intrigues and influence of foreign powers? To the second
question it may be answered, that if the general government should
interpose by virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of
course, bound to pursue the authority. But the authority extends no
further than to a GUARANTY of a republican form of government, which
supposes a pre-existing government of the form which is to be
guaranteed. As long, therefore, as the existing republican forms are
continued by the States, they are guaranteed by the federal
Constitution. Whenever the States may choose to substitute other
republican forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the federal
guaranty for the latter. The only restriction imposed on them is, that
they shall not exchange republican for antirepublican Constitutions; a
restriction which, it is presumed, will hardly be considered as a
grievance.

A protection against invasion is due from every society to the parts
composing it. The latitude of the expression here used seems to secure
each State, not only against foreign hostility, but against ambitious
or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful neighbors. The history,
both of ancient and modern confederacies, proves that the weaker
members of the union ought not to be insensible to the policy of this
article. Protection against domestic violence is added with equal
propriety. It has been remarked, that even among the Swiss cantons,
which, properly speaking, are not under one government, provision is
made for this object; and the history of that league informs us that
mutual aid is frequently claimed and afforded; and as well by the most
democratic, as the other cantons. A recent and well-known event among
ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergencies of a like
nature. At first view, it might seem not to square with the republican
theory, to suppose, either that a majority have not the right, or that
a minority will have the force, to subvert a government; and
consequently, that the federal interposition can never be required,
but when it would be improper. But theoretic reasoning, in this as in
most other cases, must be qualified by the lessons of practice. Why
may not illicit combinations, for purposes of violence, be formed as
well by a majority of a State, especially a small State as by a
majority of a county, or a district of the same State; and if the
authority of the State ought, in the latter case, to protect the local
magistracy, ought not the federal authority, in the former, to support
the State authority? Besides, there are certain parts of the State
constitutions which are so interwoven with the federal Constitution,
that a violent blow cannot be given to the one without communicating
the wound to the other.

Insurrections in a State will rarely induce a federal interposition,
unless the number concerned in them bear some proportion to the
friends of government. It will be much better that the violence in
such cases should be repressed by the superintending power, than that
the majority should be left to maintain their cause by a bloody and
obstinate contest. The existence of a right to interpose, will
generally prevent the necessity of exerting it. Is it true that force
and right are necessarily on the same side in republican governments?
May not the minor party possess such a superiority of pecuniary
resources, of military talents and experience, or of secret succors
from foreign powers, as will render it superior also in an appeal to
the sword? May not a more compact and advantageous position turn the
scale on the same side, against a superior number so situated as to be
less capable of a prompt and collected exertion of its strength?
Nothing can be more chimerical than to imagine that in a trial of
actual force, victory may be calculated by the rules which prevail in
a census of the inhabitants, or which determine the event of an
election!

May it not happen, in fine, that the minority of CITIZENS may become a
majority of PERSONS, by the accession of alien residents, of a casual
concourse of adventurers, or of those whom the constitution of the
State has not admitted to the rights of suffrage? I take no notice of
an unhappy species of population abounding in some of the States, who,
during the calm of regular government, are sunk below the level of
men; but who, in the tempestuous scenes of civil violence, may emerge
into the human character, and give a superiority of strength to any
party with which they may associate themselves. In cases where it may
be doubtful on which side justice lies, what better umpires could be
desired by two violent factions, flying to arms, and tearing a State
to pieces, than the representatives of confederate States, not heated
by the local flame? To the impartiality of judges, they would unite
the affection of friends. Happy would it be if such a remedy for its
infirmities could be enjoyed by all free governments; if a project
equally effectual could be established for the universal peace of
mankind! Should it be asked, what is to be the redress for an
insurrection pervading all the States, and comprising a superiority of
the entire force, though not a constitutional right? the answer must
be, that such a case, as it would be without the compass of human
remedies, so it is fortunately not within the compass of human
probability; and that it is a sufficient recommendation of the federal
Constitution, that it diminishes the risk of a calamity for which no
possible constitution can provide a cure. Among the advantages of a
confederate republic enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one is,
"that should a popular insurrection happen in one of the States, the
others are able to quell it. Should abuses creep into one part, they
are reformed by those that remain sound. "7. "To consider all debts
contracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of this
Constitution, as being no less valid against the United States, under
this Constitution, than under the Confederation. "This can only be
considered as a declaratory proposition; and may have been inserted,
among other reasons, for the satisfaction of the foreign creditors of
the United States, who cannot be strangers to the pretended doctrine,
that a change in the political form of civil society has the magical
effect of dissolving its moral obligations. Among the lesser
criticisms which have been exercised on the Constitution, it has been
remarked that the validity of engagements ought to have been asserted
in favor of the United States, as well as against them; and in the
spirit which usually characterizes little critics, the omission has
been transformed and magnified into a plot against the national
rights. The authors of this discovery may be told, what few others
need to be informed of, that as engagements are in their nature
reciprocal, an assertion of their validity on one side, necessarily
involves a validity on the other side; and that as the article is
merely declaratory, the establishment of the principle in one case is
sufficient for every case. They may be further told, that every
constitution must limit its precautions to dangers that are not
altogether imaginary; and that no real danger can exist that the
government would DARE, with, or even without, this constitutional
declaration before it, to remit the debts justly due to the public, on
the pretext here condemned. 8. "To provide for amendments to be
ratified by three fourths of the States under two exceptions
only. "That useful alterations will be suggested by experience, could
not but be foreseen. It was requisite, therefore, that a mode for
introducing them should be provided. The mode preferred by the
convention seems to be stamped with every mark of propriety. It guards
equally against that extreme facility, which would render the
Constitution too mutable; and that extreme difficulty, which might
perpetuate its discovered faults. It, moreover, equally enables the
general and the State governments to originate the amendment of
errors, as they may be pointed out by the experience on one side, or
on the other. The exception in favor of the equality of suffrage in
the Senate, was probably meant as a palladium to the residuary
sovereignty of the States, implied and secured by that principle of
representation in one branch of the legislature; and was probably
insisted on by the States particularly attached to that equality. The
other exception must have been admitted on the same considerations
which produced the privilege defended by it. 9. "The ratification of
the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the
establishment of this Constitution between the States, ratifying the
same. "This article speaks for itself.

The express authority of the people alone could give due validity to
the Constitution. To have required the unanimous ratification of the
thirteen States, would have subjected the essential interests of the
whole to the caprice or corruption of a single member. It would have
marked a want of foresight in the convention, which our own experience
would have rendered inexcusable. Two questions of a very delicate
nature present themselves on this occasion: 1. On what principle the
Confederation, which stands in the solemn form of a compact among the
States, can be superseded without the unanimous consent of the parties
to it? 2. What relation is to subsist between the nine or more States
ratifying the Constitution, and the remaining few who do not become
parties to it? The first question is answered at once by recurring to
the absolute necessity of the case; to the great principle of
self-preservation; to the transcendent law of nature and of nature's
God, which declares that the safety and happiness of society are the
objects at which all political institutions aim, and to which all such
institutions must be sacrificed. PERHAPS, also, an answer may be found
without searching beyond the principles of the compact itself. It has
been heretofore noted among the defects of the Confederation, that in
many of the States it had received no higher sanction than a mere
legislative ratification. The principle of reciprocality seems to
require that its obligation on the other States should be reduced to
the same standard. A compact between independent sovereigns, founded
on ordinary acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no higher
validity than a league or treaty between the parties. It is an
established doctrine on the subject of treaties, that all the articles
are mutually conditions of each other; that a breach of any one
article is a breach of the whole treaty; and that a breach, committed
by either of the parties, absolves the others, and authorizes them, if
they please, to pronounce the compact violated and void. Should it
unhappily be necessary to appeal to these delicate truths for a
justification for dispensing with the consent of particular States to
a dissolution of the federal pact, will not the complaining parties
find it a difficult task to answer the MULTIPLIED and IMPORTANT
infractions with which they may be confronted? The time has been when
it was incumbent on us all to veil the ideas which this paragraph
exhibits. The scene is now changed, and with it the part which the
same motives dictate. The second question is not less delicate; and
the flattering prospect of its being merely hypothetical forbids an
overcurious discussion of it. It is one of those cases which must be
left to provide for itself. In general, it may be observed, that
although no political relation can subsist between the assenting and
dissenting States, yet the moral relations will remain
uncancelled. The claims of justice, both on one side and on the other,
will be in force, and must be fulfilled; the rights of humanity must
in all cases be duly and mutually respected; whilst considerations of
a common interest, and, above all, the remembrance of the endearing
scenes which are past, and the anticipation of a speedy triumph over
the obstacles to reunion, will, it is hoped, not urge in vain
MODERATION on one side, and PRUDENCE on the other.
