AMONG the numerous advantages promised by a well-constructed Union,
none deserves to be more accurately developed than its tendency to
break and control the violence of faction. The friend of popular
governments never finds himself so much alarmed for their character
and fate, as when he contemplates their propensity to this dangerous
vice. He will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on any plan
which, without violating the principles to which he is attached,
provides a proper cure for it. The instability, injustice, and
confusion introduced into the public councils, have, in truth, been
the mortal diseases under which popular governments have everywhere
perished; as they continue to be the favorite and fruitful topics from
which the adversaries to liberty derive their most specious
declamations. The valuable improvements made by the American
constitutions on the popular models, both ancient and modern, cannot
certainly be too much admired; but it would be an unwarrantable
partiality, to contend that they have as effectually obviated the
danger on this side, as was wished and expected. Complaints are
everywhere heard from our most considerate and virtuous citizens,
equally the friends of public and private faith, and of public and
personal liberty, that our governments are too unstable, that the
public good is disregarded in the conflicts of rival parties, and that
measures are too often decided, not according to the rules of justice
and the rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of an
interested and overbearing majority. However anxiously we may wish
that these complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts
will not permit us to deny that they are in some degree true. It will
be found, indeed, on a candid review of our situation, that some of
the distresses under which we labor have been erroneously charged on
the operation of our governments; but it will be found, at the same
time, that other causes will not alone account for many of our
heaviest misfortunes; and, particularly, for that prevailing and
increasing distrust of public engagements, and alarm for private
rights, which are echoed from one end of the continent to the
other. These must be chiefly, if not wholly, effects of the
unsteadiness and injustice with which a factious spirit has tainted
our public administrations.

By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to
a majority or a minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by
some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adversed to the rights
of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
community.

There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction: the one, by
removing its causes; the other, by controlling its effects.

There are again two methods of removing the causes of faction: the
one, by destroying the liberty which is essential to its existence;
the other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions, the same
passions, and the same interests.

It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that it
was worse than the disease. Liberty is to faction what air is to fire,
an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could not be
less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life,
because it nourishes faction, than it would be to wish the
annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life, because it
imparts to fire its destructive agency.

The second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be
unwise. As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at
liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As long as
the connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his
opinions and his passions will have a reciprocal influence on each
other; and the former will be objects to which the latter will attach
themselves. The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the
rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a
uniformity of interests. The protection of these faculties is the
first object of government. From the protection of different and
unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different
degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the
influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective
proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests
and parties.

The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man; and
we see them everywhere brought into different degrees of activity,
according to the different circumstances of civil society. A zeal for
different opinions concerning religion, concerning government, and
many other points, as well of speculation as of practice; an
attachment to different leaders ambitiously contending for
pre-eminence and power; or to persons of other descriptions whose
fortunes have been interesting to the human passions, have, in turn,
divided mankind into parties, inflamed them with mutual animosity, and
rendered them much more disposed to vex and oppress each other than to
co-operate for their common good. So strong is this propensity of
mankind to fall into mutual animosities, that where no substantial
occasion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful distinctions
have been sufficient to kindle their unfriendly passions and excite
their most violent conflicts. But the most common and durable source
of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of
property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever
formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and
those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination. A landed
interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed
interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in
civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by
different sentiments and views. The regulation of these various and
interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation,
and involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and
ordinary operations of the government.

No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause, because his interest
would certainly bias his judgment, and, not improbably, corrupt his
integrity. With equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men are
unfit to be both judges and parties at the same time; yet what are
many of the most important acts of legislation, but so many judicial
determinations, not indeed concerning the rights of single persons,
but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens? And what are
the different classes of legislators but advocates and parties to the
causes which they determine? Is a law proposed concerning private
debts? It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one side
and the debtors on the other. Justice ought to hold the balance
between them. Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the judges;
and the most numerous party, or, in other words, the most powerful
faction must be expected to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be
encouraged, and in what degree, by restrictions on foreign
manufactures? are questions which would be differently decided by the
landed and the manufacturing classes, and probably by neither with a
sole regard to justice and the public good. The apportionment of taxes
on the various descriptions of property is an act which seems to
require the most exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no
legislative act in which greater opportunity and temptation are given
to a predominant party to trample on the rules of justice. Every
shilling with which they overburden the inferior number, is a shilling
saved to their own pockets.

It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust
these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to the
public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the
helm. Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made at all
without taking into view indirect and remote considerations, which
will rarely prevail over the immediate interest which one party may
find in disregarding the rights of another or the good of the whole.

The inference to which we are brought is, that the CAUSES of faction
cannot be removed, and that relief is only to be sought in the means
of controlling its EFFECTS.

If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by
the republican principle, which enables the majority to defeat its
sinister views by regular vote. It may clog the administration, it may
convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its
violence under the forms of the Constitution. When a majority is
included in a faction, the form of popular government, on the other
hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both
the public good and the rights of other citizens. To secure the public
good and private rights against the danger of such a faction, and at
the same time to preserve the spirit and the form of popular
government, is then the great object to which our inquiries are
directed. Let me add that it is the great desideratum by which this
form of government can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it
has so long labored, and be recommended to the esteem and adoption of
mankind.

By what means is this object attainable? Evidently by one of two
only. Either the existence of the same passion or interest in a
majority at the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having
such coexistent passion or interest, must be rendered, by their number
and local situation, unable to concert and carry into effect schemes
of oppression. If the impulse and the opportunity be suffered to
coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religious motives can be
relied on as an adequate control. They are not found to be such on the
injustice and violence of individuals, and lose their efficacy in
proportion to the number combined together, that is, in proportion as
their efficacy becomes needful.

From this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure
democracy, by which I mean a society consisting of a small number of
citizens, who assemble and administer the government in person, can
admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or
interest will, in almost every case, be felt by a majority of the
whole; a communication and concert result from the form of government
itself; and there is nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the
weaker party or an obnoxious individual. Hence it is that such
democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and contention;
have ever been found incompatible with personal security or the rights
of property; and have in general been as short in their lives as they
have been violent in their deaths. Theoretic politicians, who have
patronized this species of government, have erroneously supposed that
by reducing mankind to a perfect equality in their political rights,
they would, at the same time, be perfectly equalized and assimilated
in their possessions, their opinions, and their passions.

A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of
representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises
the cure for which we are seeking. Let us examine the points in which
it varies from pure democracy, and we shall comprehend both the nature
of the cure and the efficacy which it must derive from the Union.

The two great points of difference between a democracy and a republic
are: first, the delegation of the government, in the latter, to a
small number of citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater
number of citizens, and greater sphere of country, over which the
latter may be extended.

The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand, to refine and
enlarge the public views, by passing them through the medium of a
chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true
interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice
will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial
considerations. Under such a regulation, it may well happen that the
public voice, pronounced by the representatives of the people, will be
more consonant to the public good than if pronounced by the people
themselves, convened for the purpose. On the other hand, the effect
may be inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of
sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by corruption, or by other means,
first obtain the suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the
people. The question resulting is, whether small or extensive
republics are more favorable to the election of proper guardians of
the public weal; and it is clearly decided in favor of the latter by
two obvious considerations:

In the first place, it is to be remarked that, however small the
republic may be, the representatives must be raised to a certain
number, in order to guard against the cabals of a few; and that,
however large it may be, they must be limited to a certain number, in
order to guard against the confusion of a multitude. Hence, the number
of representatives in the two cases not being in proportion to that of
the two constituents, and being proportionally greater in the small
republic, it follows that, if the proportion of fit characters be not
less in the large than in the small republic, the former will present
a greater option, and consequently a greater probability of a fit
choice.

In the next place, as each representative will be chosen by a greater
number of citizens in the large than in the small republic, it will be
more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice with success the
vicious arts by which elections are too often carried; and the
suffrages of the people being more free, will be more likely to centre
in men who possess the most attractive merit and the most diffusive
and established characters.

It must be confessed that in this, as in most other cases, there is a
mean, on both sides of which inconveniences will be found to lie. By
enlarging too much the number of electors, you render the
representatives too little acquainted with all their local
circumstances and lesser interests; as by reducing it too much, you
render him unduly attached to these, and too little fit to comprehend
and pursue great and national objects. The federal Constitution forms
a happy combination in this respect; the great and aggregate interests
being referred to the national, the local and particular to the State
legislatures.

The other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens and
extent of territory which may be brought within the compass of
republican than of democratic government; and it is this circumstance
principally which renders factious combinations less to be dreaded in
the former than in the latter. The smaller the society, the fewer
probably will be the distinct parties and interests composing it; the
fewer the distinct parties and interests, the more frequently will a
majority be found of the same party; and the smaller the number of
individuals composing a majority, and the smaller the compass within
which they are placed, the more easily will they concert and execute
their plans of oppression. Extend the sphere, and you take in a
greater variety of parties and interests; you make it less probable
that a majority of the whole will have a common motive to invade the
rights of other citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it will
be more difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength,
and to act in unison with each other. Besides other impediments, it
may be remarked that, where there is a consciousness of unjust or
dishonorable purposes, communication is always checked by distrust in
proportion to the number whose concurrence is necessary.

Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advantage which a republic
has over a democracy, in controlling the effects of faction, is
enjoyed by a large over a small republic,--is enjoyed by the Union
over the States composing it. Does the advantage consist in the
substitution of representatives whose enlightened views and virtuous
sentiments render them superior to local prejudices and schemes of
injustice? It will not be denied that the representation of the Union
will be most likely to possess these requisite endowments. Does it
consist in the greater security afforded by a greater variety of
parties, against the event of any one party being able to outnumber
and oppress the rest? In an equal degree does the increased variety of
parties comprised within the Union, increase this security. Does it,
in fine, consist in the greater obstacles opposed to the concert and
accomplishment of the secret wishes of an unjust and interested
majority? Here, again, the extent of the Union gives it the most
palpable advantage.

The influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within their
particular States, but will be unable to spread a general
conflagration through the other States. A religious sect may
degenerate into a political faction in a part of the Confederacy; but
the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face of it must secure
the national councils against any danger from that source. A rage for
paper money, for an abolition of debts, for an equal division of
property, or for any other improper or wicked project, will be less
apt to pervade the whole body of the Union than a particular member of
it; in the same proportion as such a malady is more likely to taint a
particular county or district, than an entire State.

In the extent and proper structure of the Union, therefore, we behold
a republican remedy for the diseases most incident to republican
government. And according to the degree of pleasure and pride we feel
in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in cherishing the spirit
and supporting the character of Federalists.
IN REVIEWING the defects of the existing Confederation, and showing
that they cannot be supplied by a government of less energy than that
before the public, several of the most important principles of the
latter fell of course under consideration. But as the ultimate object
of these papers is to determine clearly and fully the merits of this
Constitution, and the expediency of adopting it, our plan cannot be
complete without taking a more critical and thorough survey of the
work of the convention, without examining it on all its sides,
comparing it in all its parts, and calculating its probable effects.

That this remaining task may be executed under impressions conducive
to a just and fair result, some reflections must in this place be
indulged, which candor previously suggests.

It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs, that public
measures are rarely investigated with that spirit of moderation which
is essential to a just estimate of their real tendency to advance or
obstruct the public good; and that this spirit is more apt to be
diminished than promoted, by those occasions which require an unusual
exercise of it. To those who have been led by experience to attend to
this consideration, it could not appear surprising, that the act of
the convention, which recommends so many important changes and
innovations, which may be viewed in so many lights and relations, and
which touches the springs of so many passions and interests, should
find or excite dispositions unfriendly, both on one side and on the
other, to a fair discussion and accurate judgment of its merits. In
some, it has been too evident from their own publications, that they
have scanned the proposed Constitution, not only with a predisposition
to censure, but with a predetermination to condemn; as the language
held by others betrays an opposite predetermination or bias, which
must render their opinions also of little moment in the question. In
placing, however, these different characters on a level, with respect
to the weight of their opinions, I wish not to insinuate that there
may not be a material difference in the purity of their intentions. It
is but just to remark in favor of the latter description, that as our
situation is universally admitted to be peculiarly critical, and to
require indispensably that something should be done for our relief,
the predetermined patron of what has been actually done may have taken
his bias from the weight of these considerations, as well as from
considerations of a sinister nature. The predetermined adversary, on
the other hand, can have been governed by no venial motive
whatever. The intentions of the first may be upright, as they may on
the contrary be culpable. The views of the last cannot be upright, and
must be culpable. But the truth is, that these papers are not
addressed to persons falling under either of these characters. They
solicit the attention of those only, who add to a sincere zeal for the
happiness of their country, a temper favorable to a just estimate of
the means of promoting it.

Persons of this character will proceed to an examination of the plan
submitted by the convention, not only without a disposition to find or
to magnify faults; but will see the propriety of reflecting, that a
faultless plan was not to be expected. Nor will they barely make
allowances for the errors which may be chargeable on the fallibility
to which the convention, as a body of men, were liable; but will keep
in mind, that they themselves also are but men, and ought not to
assume an infallibility in rejudging the fallible opinions of others.

With equal readiness will it be perceived, that besides these
inducements to candor, many allowances ought to be made for the
difficulties inherent in the very nature of the undertaking referred
to the convention.

The novelty of the undertaking immediately strikes us. It has been
shown in the course of these papers, that the existing Confederation
is founded on principles which are fallacious; that we must
consequently change this first foundation, and with it the
superstructure resting upon it. It has been shown, that the other
confederacies which could be consulted as precedents have been
vitiated by the same erroneous principles, and can therefore furnish
no other light than that of beacons, which give warning of the course
to be shunned, without pointing out that which ought to be
pursued. The most that the convention could do in such a situation,
was to avoid the errors suggested by the past experience of other
countries, as well as of our own; and to provide a convenient mode of
rectifying their own errors, as future experiences may unfold them.

Among the difficulties encountered by the convention, a very important
one must have lain in combining the requisite stability and energy in
government, with the inviolable attention due to liberty and to the
republican form. Without substantially accomplishing this part of
their undertaking, they would have very imperfectly fulfilled the
object of their appointment, or the expectation of the public; yet
that it could not be easily accomplished, will be denied by no one who
is unwilling to betray his ignorance of the subject. Energy in
government is essential to that security against external and internal
danger, and to that prompt and salutary execution of the laws which
enter into the very definition of good government. Stability in
government is essential to national character and to the advantages
annexed to it, as well as to that repose and confidence in the minds
of the people, which are among the chief blessings of civil
society. An irregular and mutable legislation is not more an evil in
itself than it is odious to the people; and it may be pronounced with
assurance that the people of this country, enlightened as they are
with regard to the nature, and interested, as the great body of them
are, in the effects of good government, will never be satisfied till
some remedy be applied to the vicissitudes and uncertainties which
characterize the State administrations. On comparing, however, these
valuable ingredients with the vital principles of liberty, we must
perceive at once the difficulty of mingling them together in their due
proportions. The genius of republican liberty seems to demand on one
side, not only that all power should be derived from the people, but
that those intrusted with it should be kept in independence on the
people, by a short duration of their appointments; and that even
during this short period the trust should be placed not in a few, but
a number of hands. Stability, on the contrary, requires that the hands
in which power is lodged should continue for a length of time the
same. A frequent change of men will result from a frequent return of
elections; and a frequent change of measures from a frequent change of
men: whilst energy in government requires not only a certain duration
of power, but the execution of it by a single hand.

How far the convention may have succeeded in this part of their work,
will better appear on a more accurate view of it. From the cursory
view here taken, it must clearly appear to have been an arduous part.

Not less arduous must have been the task of marking the proper line of
partition between the authority of the general and that of the State
governments. Every man will be sensible of this difficulty, in
proportion as he has been accustomed to contemplate and discriminate
objects extensive and complicated in their nature. The faculties of
the mind itself have never yet been distinguished and defined, with
satisfactory precision, by all the efforts of the most acute and
metaphysical philosophers. Sense, perception, judgment, desire,
volition, memory, imagination, are found to be separated by such
delicate shades and minute gradations that their boundaries have
eluded the most subtle investigations, and remain a pregnant source of
ingenious disquisition and controversy. The boundaries between the
great kingdom of nature, and, still more, between the various
provinces, and lesser portions, into which they are subdivided, afford
another illustration of the same important truth. The most sagacious
and laborious naturalists have never yet succeeded in tracing with
certainty the line which separates the district of vegetable life from
the neighboring region of unorganized matter, or which marks the
ermination of the former and the commencement of the animal empire. A
still greater obscurity lies in the distinctive characters by which
the objects in each of these great departments of nature have been
arranged and assorted.

When we pass from the works of nature, in which all the delineations
are perfectly accurate, and appear to be otherwise only from the
imperfection of the eye which surveys them, to the institutions of
man, in which the obscurity arises as well from the object itself as
from the organ by which it is contemplated, we must perceive the
necessity of moderating still further our expectations and hopes from
the efforts of human sagacity. Experience has instructed us that no
skill in the science of government has yet been able to discriminate
and define, with sufficient certainty, its three great provinces the
legislative, executive, and judiciary; or even the privileges and
powers of the different legislative branches. Questions daily occur in
the course of practice, which prove the obscurity which reins in these
subjects, and which puzzle the greatest adepts in political science.

The experience of ages, with the continued and combined labors of the
most enlightened legislatures and jurists, has been equally
unsuccessful in delineating the several objects and limits of
different codes of laws and different tribunals of justice. The
precise extent of the common law, and the statute law, the maritime
law, the ecclesiastical law, the law of corporations, and other local
laws and customs, remains still to be clearly and finally established
in Great Britain, where accuracy in such subjects has been more
industriously pursued than in any other part of the world. The
jurisdiction of her several courts, general and local, of law, of
equity, of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent and
intricate discussions, sufficiently denoting the indeterminate limits
by which they are respectively circumscribed. All new laws, though
penned with the greatest technical skill, and passed on the fullest
and most mature deliberation, are considered as more or less obscure
and equivocal, until their meaning be liquidated and ascertained by a
series of particular discussions and adjudications. Besides the
obscurity arising from the complexity of objects, and the imperfection
of the human faculties, the medium through which the conceptions of
men are conveyed to each other adds a fresh embarrassment. The use of
words is to express ideas. Perspicuity, therefore, requires not only
that the ideas should be distinctly formed, but that they should be
expressed by words distinctly and exclusively appropriate to them. But
no language is so copious as to supply words and phrases for every
complex idea, or so correct as not to include many equivocally
denoting different ideas. Hence it must happen that however accurately
objects may be discriminated in themselves, and however accurately the
discrimination may be considered, the definition of them may be
rendered inaccurate by the inaccuracy of the terms in which it is
delivered. And this unavoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less,
according to the complexity and novelty of the objects defined. When
the Almighty himself condescends to address mankind in their own
language, his meaning, luminous as it must be, is rendered dim and
doubtful by the cloudy medium through which it is communicated.

Here, then, are three sources of vague and incorrect definitions:
indistinctness of the object, imperfection of the organ of conception,
inadequateness of the vehicle of ideas. Any one of these must produce
a certain degree of obscurity. The convention, in delineating the
boundary between the federal and State jurisdictions, must have
experienced the full effect of them all.

To the difficulties already mentioned may be added the interfering
pretensions of the larger and smaller States. We cannot err in
supposing that the former would contend for a participation in the
government, fully proportioned to their superior wealth and
importance; and that the latter would not be less tenacious of the
equality at present enjoyed by them. We may well suppose that neither
side would entirely yield to the other, and consequently that the
struggle could be terminated only by compromise. It is extremely
probable, also, that after the ratio of representation had been
adjusted, this very compromise must have produced a fresh struggle
between the same parties, to give such a turn to the organization of
the government, and to the distribution of its powers, as would
increase the importance of the branches, in forming which they had
respectively obtained the greatest share of influence. There are
features in the Constitution which warrant each of these suppositions;
and as far as either of them is well founded, it shows that the
convention must have been compelled to sacrifice theoretical propriety
to the force of extraneous considerations.

Nor could it have been the large and small States only, which would
marshal themselves in opposition to each other on various
points. Other combinations, resulting from a difference of local
position and policy, must have created additional difficulties. As
every State may be divided into different districts, and its citizens
into different classes, which give birth to contending interests and
local jealousies, so the different parts of the United States are
distinguished from each other by a variety of circumstances, which
produce a like effect on a larger scale. And although this variety of
interests, for reasons sufficiently explained in a former paper, may
have a salutary influence on the administration of the government when
formed, yet every one must be sensible of the contrary influence,
which must have been experienced in the task of forming it.

Would it be wonderful if, under the pressure of all these
difficulties, the convention should have been forced into some
deviations from that artificial structure and regular symmetry which
an abstract view of the subject might lead an ingenious theorist to
bestow on a Constitution planned in his closet or in his imagination?
The real wonder is that so many difficulties should have been
surmounted, and surmounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented as
it must have been unexpected. It is impossible for any man of candor
to reflect on this circumstance without partaking of the
astonishment. It is impossible for the man of pious reflection not to
perceive in it a finger of that Almighty hand which has been so
frequently and signally extended to our relief in the critical stages
of the revolution.

We had occasion, in a former paper, to take notice of the repeated
trials which have been unsuccessfully made in the United Netherlands
for reforming the baneful and notorious vices of their
constitution. The history of almost all the great councils and
consultations held among mankind for reconciling their discordant
opinions, assuaging their mutual jealousies, and adjusting their
respective interests, is a history of factions, contentions, and
disappointments, and may be classed among the most dark and degraded
pictures which display the infirmities and depravities of the human
character. If, in a few scattered instances, a brighter aspect is
presented, they serve only as exceptions to admonish us of the general
truth; and by their lustre to darken the gloom of the adverse prospect
to which they are contrasted. In revolving the causes from which these
exceptions result, and applying them to the particular instances
before us, we are necessarily led to two important conclusions. The
first is, that the convention must have enjoyed, in a very singular
degree, an exemption from the pestilential influence of party
animosities the disease most incident to deliberative bodies, and most
apt to contaminate their proceedings. The second conclusion is that
all the deputations composing the convention were satisfactorily
accommodated by the final act, or were induced to accede to it by a
deep conviction of the necessity of sacrificing private opinions and
partial interests to the public good, and by a despair of seeing this
necessity diminished by delays or by new experiments.
IT IS not a little remarkable that in every case reported by ancient
history, in which government has been established with deliberation
and consent, the task of framing it has not been committed to an
assembly of men, but has been performed by some individual citizen of
preeminent wisdom and approved integrity.

Minos, we learn, was the primitive founder of the government of Crete,
as Zaleucus was of that of the Locrians. Theseus first, and after him
Draco and Solon, instituted the government of Athens. Lycurgus was the
lawgiver of Sparta. The foundation of the original government of Rome
was laid by Romulus, and the work completed by two of his elective
successors, Numa and Tullius Hostilius. On the abolition of royalty
the consular administration was substituted by Brutus, who stepped
forward with a project for such a reform, which, he alleged, had been
prepared by Tullius Hostilius, and to which his address obtained the
assent and ratification of the senate and people. This remark is
applicable to confederate governments also. Amphictyon, we are told,
was the author of that which bore his name. The Achaean league
received its first birth from Achaeus, and its second from Aratus.

What degree of agency these reputed lawgivers might have in their
respective establishments, or how far they might be clothed with the
legitimate authority of the people, cannot in every instance be
ascertained. In some, however, the proceeding was strictly
regular. Draco appears to have been intrusted by the people of Athens
with indefinite powers to reform its government and laws. And Solon,
according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled, by the universal
suffrage of his fellow-citizens, to take upon him the sole and
absolute power of new-modeling the constitution. The proceedings under
Lycurgus were less regular; but as far as the advocates for a regular
reform could prevail, they all turned their eyes towards the single
efforts of that celebrated patriot and sage, instead of seeking to
bring about a revolution by the intervention of a deliberative body of
citizens.

Whence could it have proceeded, that a people, jealous as the Greeks
were of their liberty, should so far abandon the rules of caution as
to place their destiny in the hands of a single citizen? Whence could
it have proceeded, that the Athenians, a people who would not suffer
an army to be commanded by fewer than ten generals, and who required
no other proof of danger to their liberties than the illustrious merit
of a fellow-citizen, should consider one illustrious citizen as a more
eligible depositary of the fortunes of themselves and their posterity,
than a select body of citizens, from whose common deliberations more
wisdom, as well as more safety, might have been expected? These
questions cannot be fully answered, without supposing that the fears
of discord and disunion among a number of counsellors exceeded the
apprehension of treachery or incapacity in a single
individual. History informs us, likewise, of the difficulties with
which these celebrated reformers had to contend, as well as the
expedients which they were obliged to employ in order to carry their
reforms into effect. Solon, who seems to have indulged a more
temporizing policy, confessed that he had not given to his countrymen
the government best suited to their happiness, but most tolerable to
their prejudices. And Lycurgus, more true to his object, was under the
necessity of mixing a portion of violence with the authority of
superstition, and of securing his final success by a voluntary
renunciation, first of his country, and then of his life. If these
lessons teach us, on one hand, to admire the improvement made by
America on the ancient mode of preparing and establishing regular
plans of government, they serve not less, on the other, to admonish us
of the hazards and difficulties incident to such experiments, and of
the great imprudence of unnecessarily multiplying them.

Is it an unreasonable conjecture, that the errors which may be
contained in the plan of the convention are such as have resulted
rather from the defect of antecedent experience on this complicated
and difficult subject, than from a want of accuracy or care in the
investigation of it; and, consequently such as will not be ascertained
until an actual trial shall have pointed them out? This conjecture is
rendered probable, not only by many considerations of a general
nature, but by the particular case of the Articles of
Confederation. It is observable that among the numerous objections and
amendments suggested by the several States, when these articles were
submitted for their ratification, not one is found which alludes to
the great and radical error which on actual trial has discovered
itself. And if we except the observations which New Jersey was led to
make, rather by her local situation, than by her peculiar foresight,
it may be questioned whether a single suggestion was of sufficient
moment to justify a revision of the system. There is abundant reason,
nevertheless, to suppose that immaterial as these objections were,
they would have been adhered to with a very dangerous inflexibility,
in some States, had not a zeal for their opinions and supposed
interests been stifled by the more powerful sentiment of
selfpreservation. One State, we may remember, persisted for several
years in refusing her concurrence, although the enemy remained the
whole period at our gates, or rather in the very bowels of our
country. Nor was her pliancy in the end effected by a less motive,
than the fear of being chargeable with protracting the public
calamities, and endangering the event of the contest. Every candid
reader will make the proper reflections on these important facts.

A patient who finds his disorder daily growing worse, and that an
efficacious remedy can no longer be delayed without extreme danger,
after coolly revolving his situation, and the characters of different
physicians, selects and calls in such of them as he judges most
capable of administering relief, and best entitled to his
confidence. The physicians attend; the case of the patient is
carefully examined; a consultation is held; they are unanimously
agreed that the symptoms are critical, but that the case, with proper
and timely relief, is so far from being desperate, that it may be made
to issue in an improvement of his constitution. They are equally
unanimous in prescribing the remedy, by which this happy effect is to
be produced. The prescription is no sooner made known, however, than a
number of persons interpose, and, without denying the reality or
danger of the disorder, assure the patient that the prescription will
be poison to his constitution, and forbid him, under pain of certain
death, to make use of it. Might not the patient reasonably demand,
before he ventured to follow this advice, that the authors of it
should at least agree among themselves on some other remedy to be
substituted? And if he found them differing as much from one another
as from his first counsellors, would he not act prudently in trying
the experiment unanimously recommended by the latter, rather than be
hearkening to those who could neither deny the necessity of a speedy
remedy, nor agree in proposing one?

Such a patient and in such a situation is America at this moment. She
has been sensible of her malady. She has obtained a regular and
unanimous advice from men of her own deliberate choice. And she is
warned by others against following this advice under pain of the most
fatal consequences. Do the monitors deny the reality of her danger?
No. Do they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful remedy?
No. Are they agreed, are any two of them agreed, in their objections
to the remedy proposed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let
them speak for themselves. This one tells us that the proposed
Constitution ought to be rejected, because it is not a confederation
of the States, but a government over individuals. Another admits that
it ought to be a government over individuals to a certain extent, but
by no means to the extent proposed. A third does not object to the
government over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to the
want of a bill of rights. A fourth concurs in the absolute necessity
of a bill of rights, but contends that it ought to be declaratory, not
of the personal rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved to
the States in their political capacity. A fifth is of opinion that a
bill of rights of any sort would be superfluous and misplaced, and
that the plan would be unexceptionable but for the fatal power of
regulating the times and places of election. An objector in a large
State exclaims loudly against the unreasonable equality of
representation in the Senate. An objector in a small State is equally
loud against the dangerous inequality in the House of
Representatives. From this quarter, we are alarmed with the amazing
expense, from the number of persons who are to administer the new
government. From another quarter, and sometimes from the same quarter,
on another occasion, the cry is that the Congress will be but a shadow
of a representation, and that the government would be far less
objectionable if the number and the expense were doubled. A patriot in
a State that does not import or export, discerns insuperable
objections against the power of direct taxation. The patriotic
adversary in a State of great exports and imports, is not less
dissatisfied that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on
consumption. This politician discovers in the Constitution a direct
and irresistible tendency to monarchy; that is equally sure it will
end in aristocracy. Another is puzzled to say which of these shapes it
will ultimately assume, but sees clearly it must be one or other of
them; whilst a fourth is not wanting, who with no less confidence
affirms that the Constitution is so far from having a bias towards
either of these dangers, that the weight on that side will not be
sufficient to keep it upright and firm against its opposite
propensities. With another class of adversaries to the Constitution
the language is that the legislative, executive, and judiciary
departments are intermixed in such a manner as to contradict all the
ideas of regular government and all the requisite precautions in favor
of liberty. Whilst this objection circulates in vague and general
expressions, there are but a few who lend their sanction to it. Let
each one come forward with his particular explanation, and scarce any
two are exactly agreed upon the subject. In the eyes of one the
junction of the Senate with the President in the responsible function
of appointing to offices, instead of vesting this executive power in
the Executive alone, is the vicious part of the organization. To
another, the exclusion of the House of Representatives, whose numbers
alone could be a due security against corruption and partiality in the
exercise of such a power, is equally obnoxious. With another, the
admission of the President into any share of a power which ever must
be a dangerous engine in the hands of the executive magistrate, is an
unpardonable violation of the maxims of republican jealousy. No part
of the arrangement, according to some, is more inadmissible than the
trial of impeachments by the Senate, which is alternately a member
both of the legislative and executive departments, when this power so
evidently belonged to the judiciary department. "We concur fully,"
reply others, "in the objection to this part of the plan, but we can
never agree that a reference of impeachments to the judiciary
authority would be an amendment of the error. Our principal dislike to
the organization arises from the extensive powers already lodged in
that department." Even among the zealous patrons of a council of state
the most irreconcilable variance is discovered concerning the mode in
which it ought to be constituted. The demand of one gentleman is, that
the council should consist of a small number to be appointed by the
most numerous branch of the legislature. Another would prefer a larger
number, and considers it as a fundamental condition that the
appointment should be made by the President himself.

As it can give no umbrage to the writers against the plan of the
federal Constitution, let us suppose, that as they are the most
zealous, so they are also the most sagacious, of those who think the
late convention were unequal to the task assigned them, and that a
wiser and better plan might and ought to be substituted. Let us
further suppose that their country should concur, both in this
favorable opinion of their merits, and in their unfavorable opinion of
the convention; and should accordingly proceed to form them into a
second convention, with full powers, and for the express purpose of
revising and remoulding the work of the first. Were the experiment to
be seriously made, though it required some effort to view it seriously
even in fiction, I leave it to be decided by the sample of opinions
just exhibited, whether, with all their enmity to their predecessors,
they would, in any one point, depart so widely from their example, as
in the discord and ferment that would mark their own deliberations;
and whether the Constitution, now before the public, would not stand
as fair a chance for immortality, as Lycurgus gave to that of Sparta,
by making its change to depend on his own return from exile and death,
if it were to be immediately adopted, and were to continue in force,
not until a BETTER, but until ANOTHER should be agreed upon by this
new assembly of lawgivers.

It is a matter both of wonder and regret, that those who raise so many
objections against the new Constitution should never call to mind the
defects of that which is to be exchanged for it. It is not necessary
that the former should be perfect; it is sufficient that the latter is
more imperfect. No man would refuse to give brass for silver or gold,
because the latter had some alloy in it. No man would refuse to quit a
shattered and tottering habitation for a firm and commodious building,
because the latter had not a porch to it, or because some of the rooms
might be a little larger or smaller, or the ceilings a little higher
or lower than his fancy would have planned them. But waiving
illustrations of this sort, is it not manifest that most of the
capital objections urged against the new system lie with tenfold
weight against the existing Confederation? Is an indefinite power to
raise money dangerous in the hands of the federal government? The
present Congress can make requisitions to any amount they please, and
the States are constitutionally bound to furnish them; they can emit
bills of credit as long as they will pay for the paper; they can
borrow, both abroad and at home, as long as a shilling will be
lent. Is an indefinite power to raise troops dangerous? The
Confederation gives to Congress that power also; and they have already
begun to make use of it. Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the
different powers of government in the same body of men? Congress, a
single body of men, are the sole depositary of all the federal
powers. Is it particularly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury,
and the command of the army, into the same hands? The Confederation
places them both in the hands of Congress. Is a bill of rights
essential to liberty? The Confederation has no bill of rights. Is it
an objection against the new Constitution, that it empowers the
Senate, with the concurrence of the Executive, to make treaties which
are to be the laws of the land? The existing Congress, without any
such control, can make treaties which they themselves have declared,
and most of the States have recognized, to be the supreme law of the
land. Is the importation of slaves permitted by the new Constitution
for twenty years? By the old it is permitted forever.

I shall be told, that however dangerous this mixture of powers may be
in theory, it is rendered harmless by the dependence of Congress on
the State for the means of carrying them into practice; that however
large the mass of powers may be, it is in fact a lifeless mass. Then,
say I, in the first place, that the Confederation is chargeable with
the still greater folly of declaring certain powers in the federal
government to be absolutely necessary, and at the same time rendering
them absolutely nugatory; and, in the next place, that if the Union is
to continue, and no better government be substituted, effective powers
must either be granted to, or assumed by, the existing Congress; in
either of which events, the contrast just stated will hold good. But
this is not all. Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an
excrescent power, which tends to realize all the dangers that can be
apprehended from a defective construction of the supreme government of
the Union. It is now no longer a point of speculation and hope, that
the Western territory is a mine of vast wealth to the United States;
and although it is not of such a nature as to extricate them from
their present distresses, or for some time to come, to yield any
regular supplies for the public expenses, yet must it hereafter be
able, under proper management, both to effect a gradual discharge of
the domestic debt, and to furnish, for a certain period, liberal
tributes to the federal treasury. A very large proportion of this fund
has been already surrendered by individual States; and it may with
reason be expected that the remaining States will not persist in
withholding similar proofs of their equity and generosity. We may
calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile country, of an area
equal to the inhabited extent of the United States, will soon become a
national stock. Congress have assumed the administration of this
stock. They have begun to render it productive. Congress have
undertaken to do more: they have proceeded to form new States, to
erect temporary governments, to appoint officers for them, and to
prescribe the conditions on which such States shall be admitted into
the Confederacy. All this has been done; and done without the least
color of constitutional authority. Yet no blame has been whispered; no
alarm has been sounded. A GREAT and INDEPENDENT fund of revenue is
passing into the hands of a SINGLE BODY of men, who can RAISE TROOPS
to an INDEFINITE NUMBER, and appropriate money to their support for an
INDEFINITE PERIOD OF TIME. And yet there are men, who have not only
been silent spectators of this prospect, but who are advocates for the
system which exhibits it; and, at the same time, urge against the new
system the objections which we have heard. Would they not act with
more consistency, in urging the establishment of the latter, as no
less necessary to guard the Union against the future powers and
resources of a body constructed like the existing Congress, than to
save it from the dangers threatened by the present impotency of that
Assembly?

I mean not, by any thing here said, to throw censure on the measures
which have been pursued by Congress. I am sensible they could not have
done otherwise. The public interest, the necessity of the case,
imposed upon them the task of overleaping their constitutional
limits. But is not the fact an alarming proof of the danger resulting
from a government which does not possess regular powers commensurate
to its objects? A dissolution or usurpation is the dreadful dilemma to
which it is continually exposed.
THE last paper having concluded the observations which were meant to
introduce a candid survey of the plan of government reported by the
convention, we now proceed to the execution of that part of our
undertaking.

The first question that offers itself is, whether the general form and
aspect of the government be strictly republican. It is evident that no
other form would be reconcilable with the genius of the people of
America; with the fundamental principles of the Revolution; or with
that honorable determination which animates every votary of freedom,
to rest all our political experiments on the capacity of mankind for
self-government. If the plan of the convention, therefore, be found to
depart from the republican character, its advocates must abandon it as
no longer defensible.

What, then, are the distinctive characters of the republican form?
Were an answer to this question to be sought, not by recurring to
principles, but in the application of the term by political writers,
to the constitution of different States, no satisfactory one would
ever be found. Holland, in which no particle of the supreme authority
is derived from the people, has passed almost universally under the
denomination of a republic. The same title has been bestowed on
Venice, where absolute power over the great body of the people is
exercised, in the most absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary
nobles. Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy and of monarchy in
their worst forms, has been dignified with the same appellation. The
government of England, which has one republican branch only, combined
with an hereditary aristocracy and monarchy, has, with equal
impropriety, been frequently placed on the list of republics. These
examples, which are nearly as dissimilar to each other as to a genuine
republic, show the extreme inaccuracy with which the term has been
used in political disquisitions.

If we resort for a criterion to the different principles on which
different forms of government are established, we may define a
republic to be, or at least may bestow that name on, a government
which derives all its powers directly or indirectly from the great
body of the people, and is administered by persons holding their
offices during pleasure, for a limited period, or during good
behavior. It is ESSENTIAL to such a government that it be derived from
the great body of the society, not from an inconsiderable proportion,
or a favored class of it; otherwise a handful of tyrannical nobles,
exercising their oppressions by a delegation of their powers, might
aspire to the rank of republicans, and claim for their government the
honorable title of republic. It is SUFFICIENT for such a government
that the persons administering it be appointed, either directly or
indirectly, by the people; and that they hold their appointments by
either of the tenures just specified; otherwise every government in
the United States, as well as every other popular government that has
been or can be well organized or well executed, would be degraded from
the republican character. According to the constitution of every State
in the Union, some or other of the officers of government are
appointed indirectly only by the people. According to most of them,
the chief magistrate himself is so appointed. And according to one,
this mode of appointment is extended to one of the co-ordinate
branches of the legislature. According to all the constitutions, also,
the tenure of the highest offices is extended to a definite period,
and in many instances, both within the legislative and executive
departments, to a period of years. According to the provisions of most
of the constitutions, again, as well as according to the most
respectable and received opinions on the subject, the members of the
judiciary department are to retain their offices by the firm tenure of
good behavior.

On comparing the Constitution planned by the convention with the
standard here fixed, we perceive at once that it is, in the most rigid
sense, conformable to it. The House of Representatives, like that of
one branch at least of all the State legislatures, is elected
immediately by the great body of the people. The Senate, like the
present Congress, and the Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment
indirectly from the people. The President is indirectly derived from
the choice of the people, according to the example in most of the
States. Even the judges, with all other officers of the Union, will,
as in the several States, be the choice, though a remote choice, of
the people themselves, the duration of the appointments is equally
conformable to the republican standard, and to the model of State
constitutions The House of Representatives is periodically elective,
as in all the States; and for the period of two years, as in the State
of South Carolina. The Senate is elective, for the period of six
years; which is but one year more than the period of the Senate of
Maryland, and but two more than that of the Senates of New York and
Virginia. The President is to continue in office for the period of
four years; as in New York and Delaware, the chief magistrate is
elected for three years, and in South Carolina for two years. In the
other States the election is annual. In several of the States,
however, no constitutional provision is made for the impeachment of
the chief magistrate. And in Delaware and Virginia he is not
impeachable till out of office. The President of the United States is
impeachable at any time during his continuance in office. The tenure
by which the judges are to hold their places, is, as it unquestionably
ought to be, that of good behavior. The tenure of the ministerial
offices generally, will be a subject of legal regulation, conformably
to the reason of the case and the example of the State constitutions.

Could any further proof be required of the republican complexion of
this system, the most decisive one might be found in its absolute
prohibition of titles of nobility, both under the federal and the
State governments; and in its express guaranty of the republican form
to each of the latter.

"But it was not sufficient," say the adversaries of the proposed
Constitution, "for the convention to adhere to the republican
form. They ought, with equal care, to have preserved the FEDERAL form,
which regards the Union as a CONFEDERACY of sovereign states; instead
of which, they have framed a NATIONAL government, which regards the
Union as a CONSOLIDATION of the States." And it is asked by what
authority this bold and radical innovation was undertaken? The handle
which has been made of this objection requires that it should be
examined with some precision.

Without inquiring into the accuracy of the distinction on which the
objection is founded, it will be necessary to a just estimate of its
force, first, to ascertain the real character of the government in
question; secondly, to inquire how far the convention were authorized
to propose such a government; and thirdly, how far the duty they owed
to their country could supply any defect of regular authority.

First. In order to ascertain the real character of the government, it
may be considered in relation to the foundation on which it is to be
established; to the sources from which its ordinary powers are to be
drawn; to the operation of those powers; to the extent of them; and to
the authority by which future changes in the government are to be
introduced.

On examining the first relation, it appears, on one hand, that the
Constitution is to be founded on the assent and ratification of the
people of America, given by deputies elected for the special purpose;
but, on the other, that this assent and ratification is to be given by
the people, not as individuals composing one entire nation, but as
composing the distinct and independent States to which they
respectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratification of the
several States, derived from the supreme authority in each State, the
authority of the people themselves. The act, therefore, establishing
the Constitution, will not be a NATIONAL, but a FEDERAL act.

That it will be a federal and not a national act, as these terms are
understood by the objectors; the act of the people, as forming so many
independent States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is obvious
from this single consideration, that it is to result neither from the
decision of a MAJORITY of the people of the Union, nor from that of a
MAJORITY of the States. It must result from the UNANIMOUS assent of
the several States that are parties to it, differing no otherwise from
their ordinary assent than in its being expressed, not by the
legislative authority, but by that of the people themselves. Were the
people regarded in this transaction as forming one nation, the will of
the majority of the whole people of the United States would bind the
minority, in the same manner as the majority in each State must bind
the minority; and the will of the majority must be determined either
by a comparison of the individual votes, or by considering the will of
the majority of the States as evidence of the will of a majority of
the people of the United States. Neither of these rules have been
adopted. Each State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as a
sovereign body, independent of all others, and only to be bound by its
own voluntary act. In this relation, then, the new Constitution will,
if established, be a FEDERAL, and not a NATIONAL constitution.

The next relation is, to the sources from which the ordinary powers of
government are to be derived. The House of Representatives will derive
its powers from the people of America; and the people will be
represented in the same proportion, and on the same principle, as they
are in the legislature of a particular State. So far the government is
NATIONAL, not FEDERAL. The Senate, on the other hand, will derive its
powers from the States, as political and coequal societies; and these
will be represented on the principle of equality in the Senate, as
they now are in the existing Congress. So far the government is
FEDERAL, not NATIONAL. The executive power will be derived from a very
compound source. The immediate election of the President is to be made
by the States in their political characters. The votes allotted to
them are in a compound ratio, which considers them partly as distinct
and coequal societies, partly as unequal members of the same
society. The eventual election, again, is to be made by that branch of
the legislature which consists of the national representatives; but in
this particular act they are to be thrown into the form of individual
delegations, from so many distinct and coequal bodies politic. From
this aspect of the government it appears to be of a mixed character,
presenting at least as many FEDERAL as NATIONAL features.

The difference between a federal and national government, as it
relates to the OPERATION OF THE GOVERNMENT, is supposed to consist in
this, that in the former the powers operate on the political bodies
composing the Confederacy, in their political capacities; in the
latter, on the individual citizens composing the nation, in their
individual capacities. On trying the Constitution by this criterion,
it falls under the NATIONAL, not the FEDERAL character; though perhaps
not so completely as has been understood. In several cases, and
particularly in the trial of controversies to which States may be
parties, they must be viewed and proceeded against in their collective
and political capacities only. So far the national countenance of the
government on this side seems to be disfigured by a few federal
features. But this blemish is perhaps unavoidable in any plan; and the
operation of the government on the people, in their individual
capacities, in its ordinary and most essential proceedings, may, on
the whole, designate it, in this relation, a NATIONAL government.

But if the government be national with regard to the OPERATION of its
powers, it changes its aspect again when we contemplate it in relation
to the EXTENT of its powers. The idea of a national government
involves in it, not only an authority over the individual citizens,
but an indefinite supremacy over all persons and things, so far as
they are objects of lawful government. Among a people consolidated
into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested in the national
legislature. Among communities united for particular purposes, it is
vested partly in the general and partly in the municipal
legislatures. In the former case, all local authorities are
subordinate to the supreme; and may be controlled, directed, or
abolished by it at pleasure. In the latter, the local or municipal
authorities form distinct and independent portions of the supremacy,
no more subject, within their respective spheres, to the general
authority, than the general authority is subject to them, within its
own sphere. In this relation, then, the proposed government cannot be
deemed a NATIONAL one; since its jurisdiction extends to certain
enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several States a residuary
and inviolable sovereignty over all other objects. It is true that in
controversies relating to the boundary between the two jurisdictions,
the tribunal which is ultimately to decide, is to be established under
the general government. But this does not change the principle of the
case. The decision is to be impartially made, according to the rules
of the Constitution; and all the usual and most effectual precautions
are taken to secure this impartiality. Some such tribunal is clearly
essential to prevent an appeal to the sword and a dissolution of the
compact; and that it ought to be established under the general rather
than under the local governments, or, to speak more properly, that it
could be safely established under the first alone, is a position not
likely to be combated.

If we try the Constitution by its last relation to the authority by
which amendments are to be made, we find it neither wholly NATIONAL
nor wholly FEDERAL. Were it wholly national, the supreme and ultimate
authority would reside in the MAJORITY of the people of the Union; and
this authority would be competent at all times, like that of a
majority of every national society, to alter or abolish its
established government. Were it wholly federal, on the other hand, the
concurrence of each State in the Union would be essential to every
alteration that would be binding on all. The mode provided by the plan
of the convention is not founded on either of these principles. In
requiring more than a majority, and principles. In requiring more than
a majority, and particularly in computing the proportion by STATES,
not by CITIZENS, it departs from the NATIONAL and advances towards the
FEDERAL character; in rendering the concurrence of less than the whole
number of States sufficient, it loses again the FEDERAL and partakes
of the NATIONAL character.

The proposed Constitution, therefore, is, in strictness, neither a
national nor a federal Constitution, but a composition of both. In its
foundation it is federal, not national; in the sources from which the
ordinary powers of the government are drawn, it is partly federal and
partly national; in the operation of these powers, it is national, not
federal; in the extent of them, again, it is federal, not national;
and, finally, in the authoritative mode of introducing amendments, it
is neither wholly federal nor wholly national.
THE SECOND point to be examined is, whether the convention were
authorized to frame and propose this mixed Constitution. The powers of
the convention ought, in strictness, to be determined by an inspection
of the commissions given to the members by their respective
constituents. As all of these, however, had reference, either to the
recommendation from the meeting at Annapolis, in September, 1786, or
to that from Congress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to
recur to these particular acts. The act from Annapolis recommends the
"appointment of commissioners to take into consideration the situation
of the United States; to devise SUCH FURTHER PROVISIONS as shall
appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the federal
government ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF THE UNION; and to report such
an act for that purpose, to the United States in Congress assembled,
as when agreed to by them, and afterwards confirmed by the legislature
of every State, will effectually provide for the same. "The
recommendatory act of Congress is in the words following:"WHEREAS,
There is provision in the articles of Confederation and perpetual
Union, for making alterations therein, by the assent of a Congress of
the United States, and of the legislatures of the several States; and
whereas experience hath evinced, that there are defects in the present
Confederation; as a mean to remedy which, several of the States, and
PARTICULARLY THE STATE OF NEW YORK, by express instructions to their
delegates in Congress, have suggested a convention for the purposes
expressed in the following resolution; and such convention appearing
to be the most probable mean of establishing in these States A FIRM
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT:"Resolved, That in the opinion of Congress it is
expedient, that on the second Monday of May next a convention of
delegates, who shall have been appointed by the several States, be
held at Philadelphia, for the sole and express purpose OF REVISING THE
ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION, and reporting to Congress and the several
legislatures such ALTERATIONS AND PROVISIONS THEREIN, as shall, when
agreed to in Congress, and confirmed by the States, render the federal
Constitution ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT AND THE
PRESERVATION OF THE UNION. "From these two acts, it appears, 1st, that
the object of the convention was to establish, in these States, A FIRM
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT; 2d, that this government was to be such as would
be ADEQUATE TO THE EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT and THE PRESERVATION OF
THE UNION; 3d, that these purposes were to be effected by ALTERATIONS
AND PROVISIONS IN THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION, as it is expressed in
the act of Congress, or by SUCH FURTHER PROVISIONS AS SHOULD APPEAR
NECESSARY, as it stands in the recommendatory act from Annapolis; 4th,
that the alterations and provisions were to be reported to Congress,
and to the States, in order to be agreed to by the former and
confirmed by the latter. From a comparison and fair construction of
these several modes of expression, is to be deduced the authority
under which the convention acted. They were to frame a NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT, adequate to the EXIGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT, and OF THE
UNION; and to reduce the articles of Confederation into such form as
to accomplish these purposes.

There are two rules of construction, dictated by plain reason, as well
as founded on legal axioms. The one is, that every part of the
expression ought, if possible, to be allowed some meaning, and be made
to conspire to some common end. The other is, that where the several
parts cannot be made to coincide, the less important should give way
to the more important part; the means should be sacrificed to the end,
rather than the end to the means. Suppose, then, that the expressions
defining the authority of the convention were irreconcilably at
variance with each other; that a NATIONAL and ADEQUATE GOVERNMENT
could not possibly, in the judgment of the convention, be affected by
ALTERATIONS and PROVISIONS in the ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION; which
part of the definition ought to have been embraced, and which
rejected? Which was the more important, which the less important part?
Which the end; which the means? Let the most scrupulous expositors of
delegated powers; let the most inveterate objectors against those
exercised by the convention, answer these questions. Let them declare,
whether it was of most importance to the happiness of the people of
America, that the articles of Confederation should be disregarded, and
an adequate government be provided, and the Union preserved; or that
an adequate government should be omitted, and the articles of
Confederation preserved. Let them declare, whether the preservation of
these articles was the end, for securing which a reform of the
government was to be introduced as the means; or whether the
establishment of a government, adequate to the national happiness, was
the end at which these articles themselves originally aimed, and to
which they ought, as insufficient means, to have been sacrificed. But
is it necessary to suppose that these expressions are absolutely
irreconcilable to each other; that no ALTERATIONS or PROVISIONS in THE
ARTICLES OF THE CONFEDERATION could possibly mould them into a
national and adequate government; into such a government as has been
proposed by the convention? No stress, it is presumed, will, in this
case, be laid on the TITLE; a change of that could never be deemed an
exercise of ungranted power. ALTERATIONS in the body of the instrument
are expressly authorized. NEW PROVISIONS therein are also expressly
authorized. Here then is a power to change the title; to insert new
articles; to alter old ones. Must it of necessity be admitted that
this power is infringed, so long as a part of the old articles remain?
Those who maintain the affirmative ought at least to mark the boundary
between authorized and usurped innovations; between that degree of
change which lies within the compass of ALTERATIONS AND FURTHER
PROVISIONS, and that which amounts to a TRANSMUTATION of the
government. Will it be said that the alterations ought not to have
touched the substance of the Confederation? The States would never
have appointed a convention with so much solemnity, nor described its
objects with so much latitude, if some SUBSTANTIAL reform had not been
in contemplation. Will it be said that the FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES of
the Confederation were not within the purview of the convention, and
ought not to have been varied? I ask, What are these principles? Do
they require that, in the establishment of the Constitution, the
States should be regarded as distinct and independent sovereigns? They
are so regarded by the Constitution proposed. Do they require that the
members of the government should derive their appointment from the
legislatures, not from the people of the States? One branch of the new
government is to be appointed by these legislatures; and under the
Confederation, the delegates to Congress MAY ALL be appointed
immediately by the people, and in two States [1] are actually so
appointed. Do they require that the powers of the government should
act on the States, and not immediately on individuals? In some
instances, as has been shown, the powers of the new government will
act on the States in their collective characters. In some instances,
also, those of the existing government act immediately on
individuals. In cases of capture; of piracy; of the post office; of
coins, weights, and measures; of trade with the Indians; of claims
under grants of land by different States; and, above all, in the case
of trials by courts-marshal in the army and navy, by which death may
be inflicted without the intervention of a jury, or even of a civil
magistrate; in all these cases the powers of the Confederation operate
immediately on the persons and interests of individual citizens. Do
these fundamental principles require, particularly, that no tax should
be levied without the intermediate agency of the States? The
Confederation itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on
the post office. The power of coinage has been so construed by
Congress as to levy a tribute immediately from that source also. But
pretermitting these instances, was it not an acknowledged object of
the convention and the universal expectation of the people, that the
regulation of trade should be submitted to the general government in
such a form as would render it an immediate source of general revenue?
Had not Congress repeatedly recommended this measure as not
inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the Confederation? Had
not every State but one; had not New York herself, so far complied
with the plan of Congress as to recognize the PRINCIPLE of the
innovation? Do these principles, in fine, require that the powers of
the general government should be limited, and that, beyond this limit,
the States should be left in possession of their sovereignty and
independence? We have seen that in the new government, as in the old,
the general powers are limited; and that the States, in all
unenumerated cases, are left in the enjoyment of their sovereign and
independent jurisdiction. The truth is, that the great principles of
the Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered less as
absolutely new, than as the expansion of principles which are found in
the articles of Confederation. The misfortune under the latter system
has been, that these principles are so feeble and confined as to
justify all the charges of inefficiency which have been urged against
it, and to require a degree of enlargement which gives to the new
system the aspect of an entire transformation of the old. In one
particular it is admitted that the convention have departed from the
tenor of their commission. Instead of reporting a plan requiring the
confirmation OF THE LEGISLATURES OF ALL THE STATES, they have reported
a plan which is to be confirmed by the PEOPLE, and may be carried into
effect by NINE STATES ONLY. It is worthy of remark that this
objection, though the most plausible, has been the least urged in the
publications which have swarmed against the convention. The
forbearance can only have proceeded from an irresistible conviction of
the absurdity of subjecting the fate of twelve States to the
perverseness or corruption of a thirteenth; from the example of
inflexible opposition given by a MAJORITY of one sixtieth of the
people of America to a measure approved and called for by the voice of
twelve States, comprising fifty-nine sixtieths of the people an
example still fresh in the memory and indignation of every citizen who
has felt for the wounded honor and prosperity of his country. As this
objection, therefore, has been in a manner waived by those who have
criticised the powers of the convention, I dismiss it without further
observation. The THIRD point to be inquired into is, how far
considerations of duty arising out of the case itself could have
supplied any defect of regular authority. In the preceding inquiries
the powers of the convention have been analyzed and tried with the
same rigor, and by the same rules, as if they had been real and final
powers for the establishment of a Constitution for the United
States. We have seen in what manner they have borne the trial even on
that supposition. It is time now to recollect that the powers were
merely advisory and recommendatory; that they were so meant by the
States, and so understood by the convention; and that the latter have
accordingly planned and proposed a Constitution which is to be of no
more consequence than the paper on which it is written, unless it be
stamped with the approbation of those to whom it is addressed. This
reflection places the subject in a point of view altogether different,
and will enable us to judge with propriety of the course taken by the
convention. Let us view the ground on which the convention stood. It
may be collected from their proceedings, that they were deeply and
unanimously impressed with the crisis, which had led their country
almost with one voice to make so singular and solemn an experiment for
correcting the errors of a system by which this crisis had been
produced; that they were no less deeply and unanimously convinced that
such a reform as they have proposed was absolutely necessary to effect
the purposes of their appointment. It could not be unknown to them
that the hopes and expectations of the great body of citizens,
throughout this great empire, were turned with the keenest anxiety to
the event of their deliberations. They had every reason to believe
that the contrary sentiments agitated the minds and bosoms of every
external and internal foe to the liberty and prosperity of the United
States. They had seen in the origin and progress of the experiment,
the alacrity with which the PROPOSITION, made by a single State
(Virginia), towards a partial amendment of the Confederation, had been
attended to and promoted. They had seen the LIBERTY ASSUMED by a VERY
FEW deputies from a VERY FEW States, convened at Annapolis, of
recommending a great and critical object, wholly foreign to their
commission, not only justified by the public opinion, but actually
carried into effect by twelve out of the thirteen States. They had
seen, in a variety of instances, assumptions by Congress, not only of
recommendatory, but of operative, powers, warranted, in the public
estimation, by occasions and objects infinitely less urgent than those
by which their conduct was to be governed. They must have reflected,
that in all great changes of established governments, forms ought to
give way to substance; that a rigid adherence in such cases to the
former, would render nominal and nugatory the transcendent and
precious right of the people to "abolish or alter their governments as
to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness,"
[2] since it is impossible for the people spontaneously and
universally to move in concert towards their object; and it is
therefore essential that such changes be instituted by some INFORMAL
AND UNAUTHORIZED PROPOSITIONS, made by some patriotic and respectable
citizen or number of citizens. They must have recollected that it was
by this irregular and assumed privilege of proposing to the people
plans for their safety and happiness, that the States were first
united against the danger with which they were threatened by their
ancient government; that committees and congresses were formed for
concentrating their efforts and defending their rights; and that
CONVENTIONS were ELECTED in THE SEVERAL STATES for establishing the
constitutions under which they are now governed; nor could it have
been forgotten that no little ill-timed scruples, no zeal for adhering
to ordinary forms, were anywhere seen, except in those who wished to
indulge, under these masks, their secret enmity to the substance
contended for. They must have borne in mind, that as the plan to be
framed and proposed was to be submitted TO THE PEOPLE THEMSELVES, the
disapprobation of this supreme authority would destroy it forever; its
approbation blot out antecedent errors and irregularities. It might
even have occurred to them, that where a disposition to cavil
prevailed, their neglect to execute the degree of power vested in
them, and still more their recommendation of any measure whatever, not
warranted by their commission, would not less excite animadversion,
than a recommendation at once of a measure fully commensurate to the
national exigencies. Had the convention, under all these impressions,
and in the midst of all these considerations, instead of exercising a
manly confidence in their country, by whose confidence they had been
so peculiarly distinguished, and of pointing out a system capable, in
their judgment, of securing its happiness, taken the cold and sullen
resolution of disappointing its ardent hopes, of sacrificing substance
to forms, of committing the dearest interests of their country to the
uncertainties of delay and the hazard of events, let me ask the man
who can raise his mind to one elevated conception, who can awaken in
his bosom one patriotic emotion, what judgment ought to have been
pronounced by the impartial world, by the friends of mankind, by every
virtuous citizen, on the conduct and character of this assembly? Or if
there be a man whose propensity to condemn is susceptible of no
control, let me then ask what sentence he has in reserve for the
twelve States who USURPED THE POWER of sending deputies to the
convention, a body utterly unknown to their constitutions; for
Congress, who recommended the appointment of this body, equally
unknown to the Confederation; and for the State of New York, in
particular, which first urged and then complied with this unauthorized
interposition? But that the objectors may be disarmed of every
pretext, it shall be granted for a moment that the convention were
neither authorized by their commission, nor justified by circumstances
in proposing a Constitution for their country: does it follow that the
Constitution ought, for that reason alone, to be rejected? If,
according to the noble precept, it be lawful to accept good advice
even from an enemy, shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such
advice even when it is offered by our friends? The prudent inquiry, in
all cases, ought surely to be, not so much FROM WHOM the advice comes,
as whether the advice be GOOD. The sum of what has been here advanced
and proved is, that the charge against the convention of exceeding
their powers, except in one instance little urged by the objectors,
has no foundation to support it; that if they had exceeded their
powers, they were not only warranted, but required, as the
confidential servants of their country, by the circumstances in which
they were placed, to exercise the liberty which they assume; and that
finally, if they had violated both their powers and their obligations,
in proposing a Constitution, this ought nevertheless to be embraced,
if it be calculated to accomplish the views and happiness of the
people of America. How far this character is due to the Constitution,
is the subject under investigation.
THE Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered under
two general points of view. The FIRST relates to the sum or quantity
of power which it vests in the government, including the restraints
imposed on the States. The SECOND, to the particular structure of the
government, and the distribution of this power among its several
branches. Under the FIRST view of the subject, two important questions
arise: 1. Whether any part of the powers transferred to the general
government be unnecessary or improper? 2. Whether the entire mass of
them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left in the several
States? Is the aggregate power of the general government greater than
ought to have been vested in it? This is the FIRST question. It cannot
have escaped those who have attended with candor to the arguments
employed against the extensive powers of the government, that the
authors of them have very little considered how far these powers were
necessary means of attaining a necessary end. They have chosen rather
to dwell on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably blended with
all political advantages; and on the possible abuses which must be
incident to every power or trust, of which a beneficial use can be
made. This method of handling the subject cannot impose on the good
sense of the people of America. It may display the subtlety of the
writer; it may open a boundless field for rhetoric and declamation; it
may inflame the passions of the unthinking, and may confirm the
prejudices of the misthinking: but cool and candid people will at once
reflect, that the purest of human blessings must have a portion of
alloy in them; that the choice must always be made, if not of the
lesser evil, at least of the GREATER, not the PERFECT, good; and that
in every political institution, a power to advance the public
happiness involves a discretion which may be misapplied and
abused. They will see, therefore, that in all cases where power is to
be conferred, the point first to be decided is, whether such a power
be necessary to the public good; as the next will be, in case of an
affirmative decision, to guard as effectually as possible against a
perversion of the power to the public detriment. That we may form a
correct judgment on this subject, it will be proper to review the
several powers conferred on the government of the Union; and that this
may be the more conveniently done they may be reduced into different
classes as they relate to the following different objects: 1. Security
against foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with foreign
nations; 3. Maintenance of harmony and proper intercourse among the
States; 4. Certain miscellaneous objects of general utility;
5. Restraint of the States from certain injurious acts; 6. Provisions
for giving due efficacy to all these powers. The powers falling within
the FIRST class are those of declaring war and granting letters of
marque; of providing armies and fleets; of regulating and calling
forth the militia; of levying and borrowing money. Security against
foreign danger is one of the primitive objects of civil society. It is
an avowed and essential object of the American Union. The powers
requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided to the federal
councils. Is the power of declaring war necessary? No man will answer
this question in the negative. It would be superfluous, therefore, to
enter into a proof of the affirmative. The existing Confederation
establishes this power in the most ample form. Is the power of raising
armies and equipping fleets necessary? This is involved in the
foregoing power. It is involved in the power of self-defense. But was
it necessary to give an INDEFINITE POWER of raising TROOPS, as well as
providing fleets; and of maintaining both in PEACE, as well as in war?
The answer to these questions has been too far anticipated in another
place to admit an extensive discussion of them in this place. The
answer indeed seems to be so obvious and conclusive as scarcely to
justify such a discussion in any place. With what color of propriety
could the force necessary for defense be limited by those who cannot
limit the force of offense? If a federal Constitution could chain the
ambition or set bounds to the exertions of all other nations, then
indeed might it prudently chain the discretion of its own government,
and set bounds to the exertions for its own safety.

How could a readiness for war in time of peace be safely prohibited,
unless we could prohibit, in like manner, the preparations and
establishments of every hostile nation? The means of security can only
be regulated by the means and the danger of attack. They will, in
fact, be ever determined by these rules, and by no others. It is in
vain to oppose constitutional barriers to the impulse of
self-preservation. It is worse than in vain; because it plants in the
Constitution itself necessary usurpations of power, every precedent of
which is a germ of unnecessary and multiplied repetitions. If one
nation maintains constantly a disciplined army, ready for the service
of ambition or revenge, it obliges the most pacific nations who may be
within the reach of its enterprises to take corresponding precautions.

The fifteenth century was the unhappy epoch of military establishments
in the time of peace. They were introduced by Charles VII. of
France. All Europe has followed, or been forced into, the example. Had
the example not been followed by other nations, all Europe must long
ago have worn the chains of a universal monarch. Were every nation
except France now to disband its peace establishments, the same event
might follow. The veteran legions of Rome were an overmatch for the
undisciplined valor of all other nations and rendered her the mistress
of the world. Not the less true is it, that the liberties of Rome
proved the final victim to her military triumphs; and that the
liberties of Europe, as far as they ever existed, have, with few
exceptions, been the price of her military establishments. A standing
force, therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time that it may be a
necessary, provision. On the smallest scale it has its
inconveniences. On an extensive scale its consequences may be
fatal. On any scale it is an object of laudable circumspection and
precaution. A wise nation will combine all these considerations; and,
whilst it does not rashly preclude itself from any resource which may
become essential to its safety, will exert all its prudence in
diminishing both the necessity and the danger of resorting to one
which may be inauspicious to its liberties. The clearest marks of this
prudence are stamped on the proposed Constitution. The Union itself,
which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext for a military
establishment which could be dangerous. America united, with a handful
of troops, or without a single soldier, exhibits a more forbidding
posture to foreign ambition than America disunited, with a hundred
thousand veterans ready for combat. It was remarked, on a former
occasion, that the want of this pretext had saved the liberties of one
nation in Europe. Being rendered by her insular situation and her
maritime resources impregnable to the armies of her neighbors, the
rulers of Great Britain have never been able, by real or artificial
dangers, to cheat the public into an extensive peace
establishment. The distance of the United States from the powerful
nations of the world gives them the same happy security. A dangerous
establishment can never be necessary or plausible, so long as they
continue a united people. But let it never, for a moment, be forgotten
that they are indebted for this advantage to the Union alone. The
moment of its dissolution will be the date of a new order of
things. The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the stronger
States, or Confederacies, will set the same example in the New, as
Charles VII. did in the Old World. The example will be followed here
from the same motives which produced universal imitation
there. Instead of deriving from our situation the precious advantage
which Great Britain has derived from hers, the face of America will be
but a copy of that of the continent of Europe. It will present liberty
everywhere crushed between standing armies and perpetual taxes. The
fortunes of disunited America will be even more disastrous than those
of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter are confined to her own
limits. No superior powers of another quarter of the globe intrigue
among her rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and render
them the instruments of foreign ambition, jealousy, and revenge. In
America the miseries springing from her internal jealousies,
contentions, and wars, would form a part only of her lot. A plentiful
addition of evils would have their source in that relation in which
Europe stands to this quarter of the earth, and which no other quarter
of the earth bears to Europe. This picture of the consequences of
disunion cannot be too highly colored, or too often exhibited. Every
man who loves peace, every man who loves his country, every man who
loves liberty, ought to have it ever before his eyes, that he may
cherish in his heart a due attachment to the Union of America, and be
able to set a due value on the means of preserving it.

Next to the effectual establishment of the Union, the best possible
precaution against danger from standing armies is a limitation of the
term for which revenue may be appropriated to their support. This
precaution the Constitution has prudently added. I will not repeat
here the observations which I flatter myself have placed this subject
in a just and satisfactory light. But it may not be improper to take
notice of an argument against this part of the Constitution, which has
been drawn from the policy and practice of Great Britain. It is said
that the continuance of an army in that kingdom requires an annual
vote of the legislature; whereas the American Constitution has
lengthened this critical period to two years. This is the form in
which the comparison is usually stated to the public: but is it a just
form? Is it a fair comparison? Does the British Constitution restrain
the parliamentary discretion to one year? Does the American impose on
the Congress appropriations for two years? On the contrary, it cannot
be unknown to the authors of the fallacy themselves, that the British
Constitution fixes no limit whatever to the discretion of the
legislature, and that the American ties down the legislature to two
years, as the longest admissible term. Had the argument from the
British example been truly stated, it would have stood thus: The term
for which supplies may be appropriated to the army establishment,
though unlimited by the British Constitution, has nevertheless, in
practice, been limited by parliamentary discretion to a single
year. Now, if in Great Britain, where the House of Commons is elected
for seven years; where so great a proportion of the members are
elected by so small a proportion of the people; where the electors are
so corrupted by the representatives, and the representatives so
corrupted by the Crown, the representative body can possess a power to
make appropriations to the army for an indefinite term, without
desiring, or without daring, to extend the term beyond a single year,
ought not suspicion herself to blush, in pretending that the
representatives of the United States, elected FREELY by the WHOLE BODY
of the people, every SECOND YEAR, cannot be safely intrusted with the
discretion over such appropriations, expressly limited to the short
period of TWO YEARS? A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself. Of
this truth, the management of the opposition to the federal government
is an unvaried exemplification. But among all the blunders which have
been committed, none is more striking than the attempt to enlist on
that side the prudent jealousy entertained by the people, of standing
armies. The attempt has awakened fully the public attention to that
important subject; and has led to investigations which must terminate
in a thorough and universal conviction, not only that the constitution
has provided the most effectual guards against danger from that
quarter, but that nothing short of a Constitution fully adequate to
the national defense and the preservation of the Union, can save
America from as many standing armies as it may be split into States or
Confederacies, and from such a progressive augmentation, of these
establishments in each, as will render them as burdensome to the
properties and ominous to the liberties of the people, as any
establishment that can become necessary, under a united and efficient
government, must be tolerable to the former and safe to the
latter. The palpable necessity of the power to provide and maintain a
navy has protected that part of the Constitution against a spirit of
censure, which has spared few other parts. It must, indeed, be
numbered among the greatest blessings of America, that as her Union
will be the only source of her maritime strength, so this will be a
principal source of her security against danger from abroad. In this
respect our situation bears another likeness to the insular advantage
of Great Britain. The batteries most capable of repelling foreign
enterprises on our safety, are happily such as can never be turned by
a perfidious government against our liberties. The inhabitants of the
Atlantic frontier are all of them deeply interested in this provision
for naval protection, and if they have hitherto been suffered to sleep
quietly in their beds; if their property has remained safe against the
predatory spirit of licentious adventurers; if their maritime towns
have not yet been compelled to ransom themselves from the terrors of a
conflagration, by yielding to the exactions of daring and sudden
invaders, these instances of good fortune are not to be ascribed to
the capacity of the existing government for the protection of those
from whom it claims allegiance, but to causes that are fugitive and
fallacious. If we except perhaps Virginia and Maryland, which are
peculiarly vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of the Union
ought to feel more anxiety on this subject than New York. Her seacoast
is extensive. A very important district of the State is an island. The
State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river for more than
fifty leagues. The great emporium of its commerce, the great reservoir
of its wealth, lies every moment at the mercy of events, and may
almost be regarded as a hostage for ignominious compliances with the
dictates of a foreign enemy, or even with the rapacious demands of
pirates and barbarians. Should a war be the result of the precarious
situation of European affairs, and all the unruly passions attending
it be let loose on the ocean, our escape from insults and
depredations, not only on that element, but every part of the other
bordering on it, will be truly miraculous. In the present condition of
America, the States more immediately exposed to these calamities have
nothing to hope from the phantom of a general government which now
exists; and if their single resources were equal to the task of
fortifying themselves against the danger, the object to be protected
would be almost consumed by the means of protecting them. The power of
regulating and calling forth the militia has been already sufficiently
vindicated and explained. The power of levying and borrowing money,
being the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the national
defense, is properly thrown into the same class with it. This power,
also, has been examined already with much attention, and has, I trust,
been clearly shown to be necessary, both in the extent and form given
to it by the Constitution. I will address one additional reflection
only to those who contend that the power ought to have been restrained
to external taxation by which they mean, taxes on articles imported
from other countries. It cannot be doubted that this will always be a
valuable source of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be a
principal source; that at this moment it is an essential one. But we
may form very mistaken ideas on this subject, if we do not call to
mind in our calculations, that the extent of revenue drawn from
foreign commerce must vary with the variations, both in the extent and
the kind of imports; and that these variations do not correspond with
the progress of population, which must be the general measure of the
public wants. As long as agriculture continues the sole field of
labor, the importation of manufactures must increase as the consumers
multiply. As soon as domestic manufactures are begun by the hands not
called for by agriculture, the imported manufactures will decrease as
the numbers of people increase. In a more remote stage, the imports
may consist in a considerable part of raw materials, which will be
wrought into articles for exportation, and will, therefore, require
rather the encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with
discouraging duties. A system of government, meant for duration, ought
to contemplate these revolutions, and be able to accommodate itself to
them. Some, who have not denied the necessity of the power of
taxation, have grounded a very fierce attack against the Constitution,
on the language in which it is defined. It has been urged and echoed,
that the power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and
excises, to pay the debts, and provide for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States," amounts to an unlimited
commission to exercise every power which may be alleged to be
necessary for the common defense or general welfare. No stronger proof
could be given of the distress under which these writers labor for
objections, than their stooping to such a misconstruction. Had no
other enumeration or definition of the powers of the Congress been
found in the Constitution, than the general expressions just cited,
the authors of the objection might have had some color for it; though
it would have been difficult to find a reason for so awkward a form of
describing an authority to legislate in all possible cases. A power to
destroy the freedom of the press, the trial by jury, or even to
regulate the course of descents, or the forms of conveyances, must be
very singularly expressed by the terms "to raise money for the general
welfare. "But what color can the objection have, when a specification
of the objects alluded to by these general terms immediately follows,
and is not even separated by a longer pause than a semicolon? If the
different parts of the same instrument ought to be so expounded, as to
give meaning to every part which will bear it, shall one part of the
same sentence be excluded altogether from a share in the meaning; and
shall the more doubtful and indefinite terms be retained in their full
extent, and the clear and precise expressions be denied any
signification whatsoever? For what purpose could the enumeration of
particular powers be inserted, if these and all others were meant to
be included in the preceding general power? Nothing is more natural
nor common than first to use a general phrase, and then to explain and
qualify it by a recital of particulars. But the idea of an enumeration
of particulars which neither explain nor qualify the general meaning,
and can have no other effect than to confound and mislead, is an
absurdity, which, as we are reduced to the dilemma of charging either
on the authors of the objection or on the authors of the Constitution,
we must take the liberty of supposing, had not its origin with the
latter. The objection here is the more extraordinary, as it appears
that the language used by the convention is a copy from the articles
of Confederation. The objects of the Union among the States, as
described in article third, are "their common defense, security of
their liberties, and mutual and general welfare. " The terms of
article eighth are still more identical: "All charges of war and all
other expenses that shall be incurred for the common defense or
general welfare, and allowed by the United States in Congress, shall
be defrayed out of a common treasury," etc. A similar language again
occurs in article ninth. Construe either of these articles by the
rules which would justify the construction put on the new
Constitution, and they vest in the existing Congress a power to
legislate in all cases whatsoever.

But what would have been thought of that assembly, if, attaching
themselves to these general expressions, and disregarding the
specifications which ascertain and limit their import, they had
exercised an unlimited power of providing for the common defense and
general welfare? I appeal to the objectors themselves, whether they
would in that case have employed the same reasoning in justification
of Congress as they now make use of against the convention. How
difficult it is for error to escape its own condemnation!
THE SECOND class of powers, lodged in the general government, consists
of those which regulate the intercourse with foreign nations, to wit:
to make treaties; to send and receive ambassadors, other public
ministers, and consuls; to define and punish piracies and felonies
committed on the high seas, and offenses against the law of nations;
to regulate foreign commerce, including a power to prohibit, after the
year 1808, the importation of slaves, and to lay an intermediate duty
of ten dollars per head, as a discouragement to such
importations. This class of powers forms an obvious and essential
branch of the federal administration. If we are to be one nation in
any respect, it clearly ought to be in respect to other nations. The
powers to make treaties and to send and receive ambassadors, speak
their own propriety. Both of them are comprised in the articles of
Confederation, with this difference only, that the former is
disembarrassed, by the plan of the convention, of an exception, under
which treaties might be substantially frustrated by regulations of the
States; and that a power of appointing and receiving "other public
ministers and consuls," is expressly and very properly added to the
former provision concerning ambassadors. The term ambassador, if taken
strictly, as seems to be required by the second of the articles of
Confederation, comprehends the highest grade only of public ministers,
and excludes the grades which the United States will be most likely to
prefer, where foreign embassies may be necessary. And under no
latitude of construction will the term comprehend consuls. Yet it has
been found expedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to employ
the inferior grades of public ministers, and to send and receive
consuls. It is true, that where treaties of commerce stipulate for the
mutual appointment of consuls, whose functions are connected with
commerce, the admission of foreign consuls may fall within the power
of making commercial treaties; and that where no such treaties exist,
the mission of American consuls into foreign countries may PERHAPS be
covered under the authority, given by the ninth article of the
Confederation, to appoint all such civil officers as may be necessary
for managing the general affairs of the United States. But the
admission of consuls into the United States, where no previous treaty
has stipulated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for. A supply
of the omission is one of the lesser instances in which the convention
have improved on the model before them. But the most minute provisions
become important when they tend to obviate the necessity or the
pretext for gradual and unobserved usurpations of power. A list of the
cases in which Congress have been betrayed, or forced by the defects
of the Confederation, into violations of their chartered authorities,
would not a little surprise those who have paid no attention to the
subject; and would be no inconsiderable argument in favor of the new
Constitution, which seems to have provided no less studiously for the
lesser, than the more obvious and striking defects of the old. The
power to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high
seas, and offenses against the law of nations, belongs with equal
propriety to the general government, and is a still greater
improvement on the articles of Confederation. These articles contain
no provision for the case of offenses against the law of nations; and
consequently leave it in the power of any indiscreet member to embroil
the Confederacy with foreign nations. The provision of the federal
articles on the subject of piracies and felonies extends no further
than to the establishment of courts for the trial of these
offenses. The definition of piracies might, perhaps, without
inconveniency, be left to the law of nations; though a legislative
definition of them is found in most municipal codes.

A definition of felonies on the high seas is evidently
requisite. Felony is a term of loose signification, even in the common
law of England; and of various import in the statute law of that
kingdom. But neither the common nor the statute law of that, or of any
other nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings of this,
unless previously made its own by legislative adoption. The meaning of
the term, as defined in the codes of the several States, would be as
impracticable as the former would be a dishonorable and illegitimate
guide. It is not precisely the same in any two of the States; and
varies in each with every revision of its criminal laws. For the sake
of certainty and uniformity, therefore, the power of defining felonies
in this case was in every respect necessary and proper.

The regulation of foreign commerce, having fallen within several views
which have been taken of this subject, has been too fully discussed to
need additional proofs here of its being properly submitted to the
federal administration. It were doubtless to be wished, that the power
of prohibiting the importation of slaves had not been postponed until
the year 1808, or rather that it had been suffered to have immediate
operation. But it is not difficult to account, either for this
restriction on the general government, or for the manner in which the
whole clause is expressed. It ought to be considered as a great point
gained in favor of humanity, that a period of twenty years may
terminate forever, within these States, a traffic which has so long
and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of modern policy; that within
that period, it will receive a considerable discouragement from the
federal government, and may be totally abolished, by a concurrence of
the few States which continue the unnatural traffic, in the
prohibitory example which has been given by so great a majority of the
Union. Happy would it be for the unfortunate Africans, if an equal
prospect lay before them of being redeemed from the oppressions of
their European brethren!

Attempts have been made to pervert this clause into an objection
against the Constitution, by representing it on one side as a criminal
toleration of an illicit practice, and on another as calculated to
prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from Europe to America. I
mention these misconstructions, not with a view to give them an
answer, for they deserve none, but as specimens of the manner and
spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct their opposition to
the proposed government. The powers included in the THIRD class are
those which provide for the harmony and proper intercourse among the
States. Under this head might be included the particular restraints
imposed on the authority of the States, and certain powers of the
judicial department; but the former are reserved for a distinct class,
and the latter will be particularly examined when we arrive at the
structure and organization of the government. I shall confine myself
to a cursory review of the remaining powers comprehended under this
third description, to wit: to regulate commerce among the several
States and the Indian tribes; to coin money, regulate the value
thereof, and of foreign coin; to provide for the punishment of
counterfeiting the current coin and secureties of the United States;
to fix the standard of weights and measures; to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization, and uniform laws of bankruptcy, to prescribe
the manner in which the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
of each State shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other
States; and to establish post offices and post roads. The defect of
power in the existing Confederacy to regulate the commerce between its
several members, is in the number of those which have been clearly
pointed out by experience. To the proofs and remarks which former
papers have brought into view on this subject, it may be added that
without this supplemental provision, the great and essential power of
regulating foreign commerce would have been incomplete and
ineffectual. A very material object of this power was the relief of
the States which import and export through other States, from the
improper contributions levied on them by the latter. Were these at
liberty to regulate the trade between State and State, it must be
foreseen that ways would be found out to load the articles of import
and export, during the passage through their jurisdiction, with duties
which would fall on the makers of the latter and the consumers of the
former. We may be assured by past experience, that such a practice
would be introduced by future contrivances; and both by that and a
common knowledge of human affairs, that it would nourish unceasing
animosities, and not improbably terminate in serious interruptions of
the public tranquillity. To those who do not view the question through
the medium of passion or of interest, the desire of the commercial
States to collect, in any form, an indirect revenue from their
uncommercial neighbors, must appear not less impolitic than it is
unfair; since it would stimulate the injured party, by resentment as
well as interest, to resort to less convenient channels for their
foreign trade. But the mild voice of reason, pleading the cause of an
enlarged and permanent interest, is but too often drowned, before
public bodies as well as individuals, by the clamors of an impatient
avidity for immediate and immoderate gain. The necessity of a
superintending authority over the reciprocal trade of confederated
States, has been illustrated by other examples as well as our own. In
Switzerland, where the Union is so very slight, each canton is obliged
to allow to merchandises a passage through its jurisdiction into other
cantons, without an augmentation of the tolls. In Germany it is a law
of the empire, that the princes and states shall not lay tolls or
customs on bridges, rivers, or passages, without the consent of the
emperor and the diet; though it appears from a quotation in an
antecedent paper, that the practice in this, as in many other
instances in that confederacy, has not followed the law, and has
produced there the mischiefs which have been foreseen here. Among the
restraints imposed by the Union of the Netherlands on its members, one
is, that they shall not establish imposts disadvantageous to their
neighbors, without the general permission. The regulation of commerce
with the Indian tribes is very properly unfettered from two
limitations in the articles of Confederation, which render the
provision obscure and contradictory. The power is there restrained to
Indians, not members of any of the States, and is not to violate or
infringe the legislative right of any State within its own
limits. What description of Indians are to be deemed members of a
State, is not yet settled, and has been a question of frequent
perplexity and contention in the federal councils. And how the trade
with Indians, though not members of a State, yet residing within its
legislative jurisdiction, can be regulated by an external authority,
without so far intruding on the internal rights of legislation, is
absolutely incomprehensible. This is not the only case in which the
articles of Confederation have inconsiderately endeavored to
accomplish impossibilities; to reconcile a partial sovereignty in the
Union, with complete sovereignty in the States; to subvert a
mathematical axiom, by taking away a part, and letting the whole
remain. All that need be remarked on the power to coin money, regulate
the value thereof, and of foreign coin, is, that by providing for this
last case, the Constitution has supplied a material omission in the
articles of Confederation. The authority of the existing Congress is
restrained to the regulation of coin STRUCK by their own authority, or
that of the respective States. It must be seen at once that the
proposed uniformity in the VALUE of the current coin might be
destroyed by subjecting that of foreign coin to the different
regulations of the different States. The punishment of counterfeiting
the public securities, as well as the current coin, is submitted of
course to that authority which is to secure the value of both. The
regulation of weights and measures is transferred from the articles of
Confederation, and is founded on like considerations with the
preceding power of regulating coin.

The dissimilarity in the rules of naturalization has long been
remarked as a fault in our system, and as laying a foundation for
intricate and delicate questions. In the fourth article of the
Confederation, it is declared "that the FREE INHABITANTS of each of
these States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice,
excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of FREE
CITIZENS in the several States; and THE PEOPLE of each State shall, in
every other, enjoy all the privileges of trade and commerce,"
etc. There is a confusion of language here, which is remarkable. Why
the terms FREE INHABITANTS are used in one part of the article, FREE
CITIZENS in another, and PEOPLE in another; or what was meant by
superadding to "all privileges and immunities of free citizens," "all
the privileges of trade and commerce," cannot easily be determined. It
seems to be a construction scarcely avoidable, however, that those who
come under the denomination of FREE INHABITANTS of a State, although
not citizens of such State, are entitled, in every other State, to all
the privileges of FREE CITIZENS of the latter; that is, to greater
privileges than they may be entitled to in their own State: so that it
may be in the power of a particular State, or rather every State is
laid under a necessity, not only to confer the rights of citizenship
in other States upon any whom it may admit to such rights within
itself, but upon any whom it may allow to become inhabitants within
its jurisdiction. But were an exposition of the term "inhabitants" to
be admitted which would confine the stipulated privileges to citizens
alone, the difficulty is diminished only, not removed. The very
improper power would still be retained by each State, of naturalizing
aliens in every other State. In one State, residence for a short term
confirms all the rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of
greater importance are required. An alien, therefore, legally
incapacitated for certain rights in the latter, may, by previous
residence only in the former, elude his incapacity; and thus the law
of one State be preposterously rendered paramount to the law of
another, within the jurisdiction of the other. We owe it to mere
casualty, that very serious embarrassments on this subject have been
hitherto escaped. By the laws of several States, certain descriptions
of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious, were laid under
interdicts inconsistent not only with the rights of citizenship but
with the privilege of residence. What would have been the consequence,
if such persons, by residence or otherwise, had acquired the character
of citizens under the laws of another State, and then asserted their
rights as such, both to residence and citizenship, within the State
proscribing them? Whatever the legal consequences might have been,
other consequences would probably have resulted, of too serious a
nature not to be provided against. The new Constitution has
accordingly, with great propriety, made provision against them, and
all others proceeding from the defect of the Confederation on this
head, by authorizing the general government to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization throughout the United States. The power of
establishing uniform laws of bankruptcy is so intimately connected
with the regulation of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds where
the parties or their property may lie or be removed into different
States, that the expediency of it seems not likely to be drawn into
question. The power of prescribing by general laws, the manner in
which the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of each State
shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other States, is an
evident and valuable improvement on the clause relating to this
subject in the articles of Confederation. The meaning of the latter is
extremely indeterminate, and can be of little importance under any
interpretation which it will bear. The power here established may be
rendered a very convenient instrument of justice, and be particularly
beneficial on the borders of contiguous States, where the effects
liable to justice may be suddenly and secretly translated, in any
stage of the process, within a foreign jurisdiction. The power of
establishing post roads must, in every view, be a harmless power, and
may, perhaps, by judicious management, become productive of great
public conveniency.

Nothing which tends to facilitate the intercourse between the States
can be deemed unworthy of the public care.
THE FOURTH class comprises the following miscellaneous powers:1. A
power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by
securing, for a limited time, to authors and inventors, the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries. "The utility of
this power will scarcely be questioned. The copyright of authors has
been solemnly adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common
law. The right to useful inventions seems with equal reason to belong
to the inventors.

The public good fully coincides in both cases with the claims of
individuals. The States cannot separately make effectual provisions
for either of the cases, and most of them have anticipated the
decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance of
Congress. 2. "To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases
whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as
may, by cession of particular States and the acceptance of Congress,
become the seat of the government of the United States; and to
exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent of
the legislatures of the States in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other needful
buildings. "The indispensable necessity of complete authority at the
seat of government, carries its own evidence with it. It is a power
exercised by every legislature of the Union, I might say of the world,
by virtue of its general supremacy. Without it, not only the public
authority might be insulted and its proceedings interrupted with
impunity; but a dependence of the members of the general government on
the State comprehending the seat of the government, for protection in
the exercise of their duty, might bring on the national councils an
imputation of awe or influence, equally dishonorable to the government
and dissatisfactory to the other members of the Confederacy. This
consideration has the more weight, as the gradual accumulation of
public improvements at the stationary residence of the government
would be both too great a public pledge to be left in the hands of a
single State, and would create so many obstacles to a removal of the
government, as still further to abridge its necessary
independence. The extent of this federal district is sufficiently
circumscribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite nature. And as
it is to be appropriated to this use with the consent of the State
ceding it; as the State will no doubt provide in the compact for the
rights and the consent of the citizens inhabiting it; as the
inhabitants will find sufficient inducements of interest to become
willing parties to the cession; as they will have had their voice in
the election of the government which is to exercise authority over
them; as a municipal legislature for local purposes, derived from
their own suffrages, will of course be allowed them; and as the
authority of the legislature of the State, and of the inhabitants of
the ceded part of it, to concur in the cession, will be derived from
the whole people of the State in their adoption of the Constitution,
every imaginable objection seems to be obviated. The necessity of a
like authority over forts, magazines, etc. , established by the
general government, is not less evident. The public money expended on
such places, and the public property deposited in them, requires that
they should be exempt from the authority of the particular State. Nor
would it be proper for the places on which the security of the entire
Union may depend, to be in any degree dependent on a particular member
of it. All objections and scruples are here also obviated, by
requiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in every such
establishment. 3. "To declare the punishment of treason, but no
attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture,
except during the life of the person attained. "As treason may be
committed against the United States, the authority of the United
States ought to be enabled to punish it. But as new-fangled and
artificial treasons have been the great engines by which violent
factions, the natural offspring of free government, have usually
wreaked their alternate malignity on each other, the convention have,
with great judgment, opposed a barrier to this peculiar danger, by
inserting a constitutional definition of the crime, fixing the proof
necessary for conviction of it, and restraining the Congress, even in
punishing it, from extending the consequences of guilt beyond the
person of its author. 4. "To admit new States into the Union; but no
new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any
other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more
States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of
the States concerned, as well as of the Congress. "In the articles of
Confederation, no provision is found on this important subject. Canada
was to be admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of the
United States; and the other COLONIES, by which were evidently meant
the other British colonies, at the discretion of nine States. The
eventual establishment of NEW STATES seems to have been overlooked by
the compilers of that instrument. We have seen the inconvenience of
this omission, and the assumption of power into which Congress have
been led by it. With great propriety, therefore, has the new system
supplied the defect. The general precaution, that no new States shall
be formed, without the concurrence of the federal authority, and that
of the States concerned, is consonant to the principles which ought to
govern such transactions. The particular precaution against the
erection of new States, by the partition of a State without its
consent, quiets the jealousy of the larger States; as that of the
smaller is quieted by a like precaution, against a junction of States
without their consent. 5. "To dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging
to the United States, with a proviso, that nothing in the Constitution
shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular State. "This is a power of very great importance,
and required by considerations similar to those which show the
propriety of the former. The proviso annexed is proper in itself, and
was probably rendered absolutely necessary by jealousies and questions
concerning the Western territory sufficiently known to the
public. 6. "To guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form
of government; to protect each of them against invasion; and on
application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the
legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence. "In a
confederacy founded on republican principles, and composed of
republican members, the superintending government ought clearly to
possess authority to defend the system against aristocratic or
monarchial innovations. The more intimate the nature of such a union
may be, the greater interest have the members in the political
institutions of each other; and the greater right to insist that the
forms of government under which the compact was entered into should be
SUBSTANTIALLY maintained. But a right implies a remedy; and where else
could the remedy be deposited, than where it is deposited by the
Constitution? Governments of dissimilar principles and forms have been
found less adapted to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a
kindred nature. "As the confederate republic of Germany," says
Montesquieu, "consists of free cities and petty states, subject to
different princes, experience shows us that it is more imperfect than
that of Holland and Switzerland. " "Greece was undone," he adds, "as
soon as the king of Macedon obtained a seat among the Amphictyons. "
In the latter case, no doubt, the disproportionate force, as well as
the monarchical form, of the new confederate, had its share of
influence on the events. It may possibly be asked, what need there
could be of such a precaution, and whether it may not become a pretext
for alterations in the State governments, without the concurrence of
the States themselves. These questions admit of ready answers. If the
interposition of the general government should not be needed, the
provision for such an event will be a harmless superfluity only in the
Constitution. But who can say what experiments may be produced by the
caprice of particular States, by the ambition of enterprising leaders,
or by the intrigues and influence of foreign powers? To the second
question it may be answered, that if the general government should
interpose by virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of
course, bound to pursue the authority. But the authority extends no
further than to a GUARANTY of a republican form of government, which
supposes a pre-existing government of the form which is to be
guaranteed. As long, therefore, as the existing republican forms are
continued by the States, they are guaranteed by the federal
Constitution. Whenever the States may choose to substitute other
republican forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the federal
guaranty for the latter. The only restriction imposed on them is, that
they shall not exchange republican for antirepublican Constitutions; a
restriction which, it is presumed, will hardly be considered as a
grievance.

A protection against invasion is due from every society to the parts
composing it. The latitude of the expression here used seems to secure
each State, not only against foreign hostility, but against ambitious
or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful neighbors. The history,
both of ancient and modern confederacies, proves that the weaker
members of the union ought not to be insensible to the policy of this
article. Protection against domestic violence is added with equal
propriety. It has been remarked, that even among the Swiss cantons,
which, properly speaking, are not under one government, provision is
made for this object; and the history of that league informs us that
mutual aid is frequently claimed and afforded; and as well by the most
democratic, as the other cantons. A recent and well-known event among
ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergencies of a like
nature. At first view, it might seem not to square with the republican
theory, to suppose, either that a majority have not the right, or that
a minority will have the force, to subvert a government; and
consequently, that the federal interposition can never be required,
but when it would be improper. But theoretic reasoning, in this as in
most other cases, must be qualified by the lessons of practice. Why
may not illicit combinations, for purposes of violence, be formed as
well by a majority of a State, especially a small State as by a
majority of a county, or a district of the same State; and if the
authority of the State ought, in the latter case, to protect the local
magistracy, ought not the federal authority, in the former, to support
the State authority? Besides, there are certain parts of the State
constitutions which are so interwoven with the federal Constitution,
that a violent blow cannot be given to the one without communicating
the wound to the other.

Insurrections in a State will rarely induce a federal interposition,
unless the number concerned in them bear some proportion to the
friends of government. It will be much better that the violence in
such cases should be repressed by the superintending power, than that
the majority should be left to maintain their cause by a bloody and
obstinate contest. The existence of a right to interpose, will
generally prevent the necessity of exerting it. Is it true that force
and right are necessarily on the same side in republican governments?
May not the minor party possess such a superiority of pecuniary
resources, of military talents and experience, or of secret succors
from foreign powers, as will render it superior also in an appeal to
the sword? May not a more compact and advantageous position turn the
scale on the same side, against a superior number so situated as to be
less capable of a prompt and collected exertion of its strength?
Nothing can be more chimerical than to imagine that in a trial of
actual force, victory may be calculated by the rules which prevail in
a census of the inhabitants, or which determine the event of an
election!

May it not happen, in fine, that the minority of CITIZENS may become a
majority of PERSONS, by the accession of alien residents, of a casual
concourse of adventurers, or of those whom the constitution of the
State has not admitted to the rights of suffrage? I take no notice of
an unhappy species of population abounding in some of the States, who,
during the calm of regular government, are sunk below the level of
men; but who, in the tempestuous scenes of civil violence, may emerge
into the human character, and give a superiority of strength to any
party with which they may associate themselves. In cases where it may
be doubtful on which side justice lies, what better umpires could be
desired by two violent factions, flying to arms, and tearing a State
to pieces, than the representatives of confederate States, not heated
by the local flame? To the impartiality of judges, they would unite
the affection of friends. Happy would it be if such a remedy for its
infirmities could be enjoyed by all free governments; if a project
equally effectual could be established for the universal peace of
mankind! Should it be asked, what is to be the redress for an
insurrection pervading all the States, and comprising a superiority of
the entire force, though not a constitutional right? the answer must
be, that such a case, as it would be without the compass of human
remedies, so it is fortunately not within the compass of human
probability; and that it is a sufficient recommendation of the federal
Constitution, that it diminishes the risk of a calamity for which no
possible constitution can provide a cure. Among the advantages of a
confederate republic enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one is,
"that should a popular insurrection happen in one of the States, the
others are able to quell it. Should abuses creep into one part, they
are reformed by those that remain sound. "7. "To consider all debts
contracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of this
Constitution, as being no less valid against the United States, under
this Constitution, than under the Confederation. "This can only be
considered as a declaratory proposition; and may have been inserted,
among other reasons, for the satisfaction of the foreign creditors of
the United States, who cannot be strangers to the pretended doctrine,
that a change in the political form of civil society has the magical
effect of dissolving its moral obligations. Among the lesser
criticisms which have been exercised on the Constitution, it has been
remarked that the validity of engagements ought to have been asserted
in favor of the United States, as well as against them; and in the
spirit which usually characterizes little critics, the omission has
been transformed and magnified into a plot against the national
rights. The authors of this discovery may be told, what few others
need to be informed of, that as engagements are in their nature
reciprocal, an assertion of their validity on one side, necessarily
involves a validity on the other side; and that as the article is
merely declaratory, the establishment of the principle in one case is
sufficient for every case. They may be further told, that every
constitution must limit its precautions to dangers that are not
altogether imaginary; and that no real danger can exist that the
government would DARE, with, or even without, this constitutional
declaration before it, to remit the debts justly due to the public, on
the pretext here condemned. 8. "To provide for amendments to be
ratified by three fourths of the States under two exceptions
only. "That useful alterations will be suggested by experience, could
not but be foreseen. It was requisite, therefore, that a mode for
introducing them should be provided. The mode preferred by the
convention seems to be stamped with every mark of propriety. It guards
equally against that extreme facility, which would render the
Constitution too mutable; and that extreme difficulty, which might
perpetuate its discovered faults. It, moreover, equally enables the
general and the State governments to originate the amendment of
errors, as they may be pointed out by the experience on one side, or
on the other. The exception in favor of the equality of suffrage in
the Senate, was probably meant as a palladium to the residuary
sovereignty of the States, implied and secured by that principle of
representation in one branch of the legislature; and was probably
insisted on by the States particularly attached to that equality. The
other exception must have been admitted on the same considerations
which produced the privilege defended by it. 9. "The ratification of
the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the
establishment of this Constitution between the States, ratifying the
same. "This article speaks for itself.

The express authority of the people alone could give due validity to
the Constitution. To have required the unanimous ratification of the
thirteen States, would have subjected the essential interests of the
whole to the caprice or corruption of a single member. It would have
marked a want of foresight in the convention, which our own experience
would have rendered inexcusable. Two questions of a very delicate
nature present themselves on this occasion: 1. On what principle the
Confederation, which stands in the solemn form of a compact among the
States, can be superseded without the unanimous consent of the parties
to it? 2. What relation is to subsist between the nine or more States
ratifying the Constitution, and the remaining few who do not become
parties to it? The first question is answered at once by recurring to
the absolute necessity of the case; to the great principle of
self-preservation; to the transcendent law of nature and of nature's
God, which declares that the safety and happiness of society are the
objects at which all political institutions aim, and to which all such
institutions must be sacrificed. PERHAPS, also, an answer may be found
without searching beyond the principles of the compact itself. It has
been heretofore noted among the defects of the Confederation, that in
many of the States it had received no higher sanction than a mere
legislative ratification. The principle of reciprocality seems to
require that its obligation on the other States should be reduced to
the same standard. A compact between independent sovereigns, founded
on ordinary acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no higher
validity than a league or treaty between the parties. It is an
established doctrine on the subject of treaties, that all the articles
are mutually conditions of each other; that a breach of any one
article is a breach of the whole treaty; and that a breach, committed
by either of the parties, absolves the others, and authorizes them, if
they please, to pronounce the compact violated and void. Should it
unhappily be necessary to appeal to these delicate truths for a
justification for dispensing with the consent of particular States to
a dissolution of the federal pact, will not the complaining parties
find it a difficult task to answer the MULTIPLIED and IMPORTANT
infractions with which they may be confronted? The time has been when
it was incumbent on us all to veil the ideas which this paragraph
exhibits. The scene is now changed, and with it the part which the
same motives dictate. The second question is not less delicate; and
the flattering prospect of its being merely hypothetical forbids an
overcurious discussion of it. It is one of those cases which must be
left to provide for itself. In general, it may be observed, that
although no political relation can subsist between the assenting and
dissenting States, yet the moral relations will remain
uncancelled. The claims of justice, both on one side and on the other,
will be in force, and must be fulfilled; the rights of humanity must
in all cases be duly and mutually respected; whilst considerations of
a common interest, and, above all, the remembrance of the endearing
scenes which are past, and the anticipation of a speedy triumph over
the obstacles to reunion, will, it is hoped, not urge in vain
MODERATION on one side, and PRUDENCE on the other.
